# v1.0.1 Release Notes

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- [#119 - Feldfunkger채t retreat point](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/119) is no longer a valid bug report at this time as the Feldfunkger채t has been removed from the SS-Sturmpionere build menu.
- [#177 - SS Propaganda Tiger Ace Missing abilities](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/177) was the result of an accidentally deleted file, not a nerf.
- [#179 - Mech Sherman 75mm M2A3 missing single shot HE round](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/179)
- [#181 - Forward deploy and infiltration soviet shock units are cheaper than their regular training](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/181)
- [#209 - AT Teams have no Vet 2](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/209) has been fixed for all factions.
- Infiltration abilities now have a cooldown duration instead of a fixed, unchanging timer.
- Shock infiltration abilities have had their costs properly adjusted.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- All mortar precision strikes cost munitions to fire.
  - Additionally, all mortar precision strikes require Veterancy 1 on the mortar squad using the ability.
  - Small mortars (8.2cm, 82mm, 3-inch) precision strike cooldowns increased from 30 seconds to 45 seconds.
  - Large mortars (12cm, 120mm, 4-inch) precision strike cooldowns increased from 45 seconds to 60 seconds.
- Panzerfausts have been slightly buffed.
  - Damage floor for Panzerfausts has been increased from 200 to 380, enabling it to one-shot all light vehicles.
  - Damage ceiling for Panzerfausts has been increased from 400 to 485, enabling it to one-shot unupgraded medium tanks.
- Panzerschrecks have been slightly buffed.
  - Their base long range and medium accuracy have been increased slightly.
  - Damage floor for Panzerschrecks has been increased from 285 to 425, enabling it to one-shot all light vehicles.
  - Damage ceiling for Panzerschrecks has been increased from 475 to 485, enabling it to one-shot unupgraded medium tanks.
- White Phosphorus has been adjusted; aggregate result is a nerf.
  - Rate at which units take damage from white phosphorus has been increased from 0.4 seconds between damage ticks to 0.1 seconds between damage ticks.
  - Damage per tick has been drastically reduced from between 40-60 damage per tick to 1-2 damage per tick.
    - Combined result between increased tick rate and decreased damage per tick is an overall reduction in damage-per-second from 100-150 DPS to 10-20 DPS.

### United States Forces

- 29th Infantry Division Riflemen have had their impact smoke grenades replaced with stun grenades.
- Ranger Recon Deploy Bazooka nerfed.
  - Ability range reduced from 60 to 40.
  - Deploy Bazooka abilities no longer fire if their target escapes the targeting radius; the unit using the Deploy Bazooka ability must move until the target returns to within range.
  - Damage ceiling has been decreased from 525 to 485.
  - Damage floor has been increased from 240 to 380.
  - Standard Panzerfaust accuracy has been applied (no more 1100% accuracy).
  - Cooldown increased from 60 seconds (unmodified) to 120 seconds (unmodified).
- All bazookas have been nerfed slightly, to match that of Panzerschrecks.
  - Damage floor has been increased from 315 to 380.
  - Damage ceiling has been decreased from 525 to 485.
- M4A3E8 Sherman cost increased from 420 manpower and 95 fuel to 420 manpower and 130 fuel.
  - Cheaper Armour Doctrine variant cost increased from 360 manpower and 80 fuel to 360 manpower and 100 fuel.
- M4A3E2 "Jumbo" Sherman cost increased from 540 manpower and 180 fuel to 640 manpower and 190 fuel.
- USF Pack Howitzer and USF M8A1 Scott primary weapons adjusted.
  - Barrage ability scatter tightened slightly.
  - Direct fire scatter increased.

### British Forces

- Valentine Mk. XI Tank cost increased from 290 manpower and 30 fuel to 360 manpower and 50 fuel.
- Cruiser Tank, Mk VIII A27M Cromwell IV cost increased from 360 manpower and 75 fuel to 380 manpower and 90 fuel.
- Cromwell Mk. IV Cruiser Tank cost increased from 380 manpower and 50 fuel to 400 manpower and 80 fuel.
- Cromwell Mk. V Cruiser Tank cost increased from 380 manpower and 95 fuel to 420 manpower and 120 fuel.
- Cromwell Obesrvation Tank cost increased from 380 manpower and 95 fuel to 400 manpower and 115 fuel.

### Soviet Union

- Soviet Motorised ODON Rekognostsirovky have been adjusted.
  - Infiltration crawl ability has been replaced with Vodka! that can be activated at any time.
  - Smoke drop on retreat time has been nerfed.
    - Shot block has been reduced from 12 seconds shot block to 6 seconds.
    - LOS block has been reduced from 20 seconds to 10 seconds.
    - Delay of 2 seconds after taking damage has been added.
- IL-2 Single FAB-50 Bombing Run delay increased from 2 seconds to 6 seconds.
  - A bug that caused the Single FAB-50 Bombing Run to drop four bombs instead of the intended one bomb has been fixed.
- IL-2 Four FAB-50 Bombing Run delay increased from 3 seconds to 8 seconds.
- OB-25 76mm Regimental Gun light howitzer precision strike salvo nerfed from 6 rounds to 2 rounds.

### Axis (Common)

- 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegesch체tz 18 (7,5 cm le.IG 18) light howitzer precision strike salvo nerfed from 6 rounds to 2 rounds.

### Wehrmacht

- Pionere squads may now build a Kampfkraft Centre, which enables the research of various unit upgrades. Currently, it contains research for increasing starting veterancy on all German troops.
  - Unfortunately, due to a lack of menu room, the **Forward Observation Post** has been removed. There will be plans to re-add this building in the future, but there are simply too many units for the basic pioneer to build at this time. This does mean, however, that lategame pure Wehrmacht forces may suffer from manpower shortages.

### Waffen-SS

- Propaganda Tiger Ace restored.
- Sturmpionere may now build a Kampfkraft Centre, which is identical to the one built by the Wehrmacht.
  - Unfortunately, due to a lack fo menu room, the **Feldfunkger채t** has been removed. Nobody seemed to build that building anyway, since its role was largely superseded by some combination of forward deployed HQ trucks and forward HQs.
