# v1.0.0 Release Notes

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Fixed an unreported bug where some officer abilities were lacking audio cues.
- [#18 - able to execute sector arty on enemy base sector](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/18)
- [#80 - Unavailable reinforce button for SS Panzergrenadiere (Sturm tactics)](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/80) see below.
- [#81 - Panzerfaust not replacing satchel](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/81) was fixed by removing the Panzerfaust from the 2. SS-Panzer-Division Panzergrenadiere squad. The reasoning is that with the ability in place, if the player purchases a Panzerschreck, issue #80 occurs. If the global Panzerfaust upgrade instead *replaced* the satchel, then the squad would lose niche functionality (satchel vs. faust) that may not have been intentional. Finally, if the local Panzerfaust upgrade replaced the satchel, then the player may find the global Panzerfaust upgrade to have been inconsistent (e.g. why was this squad missed?) and file a bug report when there wasn't a need for one.
- [#85 - Global smoke upgrade for Wehr tanks not locking individual upgrades](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/85)
- [#145 - Sov Mass Radio doesn't do anything](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/145)
- Fixed an unreported bug where some British emplacements would be unable to be killed at 0% HP.
- Fixed an unreported bug where Forward Encampments could not be destroyed by small arms fire or grenades.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Panzerfausts have been nerfed.**
  - Panzerfaust abilities no longer fire if their target escapes the targeting radius; the unit using the panzerfaust ability must move until the target returns to within range.
  - Panzerfaust armour penetration capabilities nerfed.
    - Although panzerfaust projectiles are HEAT and thus are unaffected by shell velocity, Company of Heroes 2 penetration mechanics do not account for chemical energy projectiles; thus, penetration will decrease with distance to represent decreased accuracy on the target.
  - Damage on panzerfausts has been reduced; this reduction will be temporary until a new tank-on-tank combat system, that incorporates low-damage projectiles such as HEAT and APCR, can be implemented.
  - Panzerfausts now collide with objects more.
- **Panzerschrecks have been nerfed.**
  - Panzerschreck accuracy at long ranges has been decreased.
  - Distance scatter, i.e. shots landing too far or too short, have been increased.
  - Panzerschreck armoured penetration capabilities nerfed.
  - Panzerschreck damage curve adjusted; they are no longer capable of one-shotting most medium tanks.
- Forward Encampments now gated behind 2 Command Points.
- Fortified Positions (buildings placed on regular strategic points) no longer give +10 range.
- Repair speed of base buildings only increase if the base building under repair is not in combat and is **located within the base sector**.
- Medics can only heal if their target has been out of combat for 5 seconds.

### United States Forces

- **Toggle HE on Shermans reworked.**
  - Shermans (of all kinds) now have a single-use HE ability by default.
  - Toggle HE is now locked behind the "Thunder Run!" global research, which is locked behind Major and costs 240 munitions.
  - White Phosphorus upgrade has also been gated behind the "Thunder Run!" research.
  - Captured Shermans (of all types) will no longer have access to Toggle HE unless captured by an American player with "Thunder Run!" researched, as Toggle HE requires this upgrade regardless of faction.
- Rear Echelon squads now spawn with Springfield rifles instead of M1 carbines.
- USF Pack Howitzer and USF M8A1 Scott primary weapons nerfed to be comparable to other 75mm artillery guns.
  - Damage radius decreased to match other 75mm artillery guns.
  - Scatter increased to still be better than other 75mm artillery guns but much worse than before.
- De Lisle carbine suppression effect removed.
  - Accuracy curve over distance greatly nerfed.
- Ranger Rear Echelon LMG upgrade removed, as they already get free veterancy.

### British Forces

- **New pricing model created for British units to reflect their superior out-of-the-box performance.**
  - Poor infantry now cost 200 manpower.
    - Price increased from 36 manpower per model to 40 manpower per model in a 5-man squad.
  - Regular infantry now cost 260 manpower.
    - Price increased from 48 manpower per model to 52 manpower per model in a 5-man squad.
  - Experienced infantry now cost 320 manpower.
    - Price increased from 60 manpower per model to 64 manpower per model in a 5-man squad.
  - Elite infantry now cost 380 manpower.
    - Price increased from 72 manpower per model to 76 manpower per model in a 5-man squad.
  - Ace infantry now cost 360 manpower.
    - Price increased from 110 manpower per model to 120 manpower per model in a 3-man squad.
- Lee-Enfield fire rate decreased; it is still superior to other bolt-action rifles, but not by as much.
- AEC Armoured Car hitpoints decreased from 320 to 260.
- Churchill AVRE cost increased from **580 manpower, 180 fuel, and 50 munitions** to **660 manpower, 260 fuel, and 150 munitions**.
- Churchill Crocodile cost increased from **520 manpower and 175 fuel** to **600 manpower, 210 fuel, and 50 munitions**.
- Churchill Mk. IV cost increased from **460 manpower and 105 fuel** to **460 manpower and 160 fuel**.
- Churchill Mk. VII (A42) cost increased from **460 manpower, 120 fuel and 35 munitions** to **460 manpower, 200 fuel, and 50 munitions**.
- Bren Light Machine Gun and Bren Mk. I Light Machine Gun accuracy at long range slightly nerfed.
- Rifle section Lee-Enfield cooldown buff was giving an additional accuracy buff as well; this buff has been removed.
- Commando Doctrine Recce Team scoped Boys AT rifle removed.
- Guards Anvil squad size bonus now locked behind 3 Command Points.
  - Additionally, the squad size bonus was decreasing the cost of reinforcements by 4 manpower per man; this buff has been removed, meaning that Guards Anvil rifle sections will now cost more to produce upon hitting 3 Command Points.
- Tank Doctrine battlegroup number 4 is now locked behind the 2nd tech building.

### Soviet Union

- ZiS-3 Anti-Tank Gun ability "Load High-Explosive Round" should silently fail (ability hangs) less and can fire into places they cannot directly see, but their rounds now impact on objects (i.e. they are no longer piercing). The ability still requires Line-of-Sight on targeted units.
- ZiS-2 Anti-Tank Gun abiliity "Load Fragmentation Round" ability range slightly increased to match similar abilities.
- SVT-40 accuracy at long range slightly buffed in accordance to G43 long range accuracy buff.
- M15A1 Halftrack 37mm damage nerfed to barely one-shot 80 HP models and accuracy nerfed slightly.
- Soviet Rifle Doctrine cheaper conscripts unlocked with 2 Command Points.
- Soviet Motorised Doctrine M4C Sherman adjusted.
  - Renamed from "M4C Sherman", which did not appear to have any information on Google, to "M4A2(76)W Sherman", which is well-documented.
  - T3 60 fuel tech upgrade now required.
- Soviet Shock Doctrine Shock infantry have had their costs increased to compensate for their double bonus of skill (Experienced, Elite) and body armour (80 HP -> 120 HP, negligible protection against MP40s at max range).

### Axis (common)

- **Poor quality infantry have been nerfed.** All Axis poor quality infantry now cost 200 manpower with corresponding increase in reinforcement costs.
- Hull-down has been nerfed.
  - Now has a 15 second delay when cancelling.
  - Received damage multiplier replaced with a +10% armour bonus.
  - Increased gun range bonus removed.
  - Increased suppression bonus removed.
  - Increased sight and decreased reload time retained.
  - All hull-down effects have been unified; previously some tanks had different bonuses from other tanks from hull-down.
- Base damage of Panther main gun (7.5cm KwK 42) reduced to match the damage of other 7.5cm German guns.
- MP40 and MP40/I accuracy at long range slightly nerfed.
- G43 accuracy at long range slightly buffed.
- Raketenwerfer damage nerfed to match Panzerschreck.
- 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegeschütz 18 (7,5 cm le.IG 18) light howitzer Area-of-Effect (AoE) nerfed to match that of other 75mm HE effects.
- Plant Beacon ability requires 2 Command Points.

### Wehrmacht

- Doctrinal counter-battery ability removed from doctrines Ost and Straf; the way it worked lent no counterplay and was instantaneous, and thus could not be balanced.
- Tank Shock removed; conditions for "only targeting suppressed or pinned units without veterancy" did not work, and without these requirements, the ability could not be balanced.
  - If the conditions wind up working again, then the ability may be re-added.
- Sturmhaubitze (StuH) 42 main gun nerfed to match both the Area-of-Effect (AoE) of its main 10.5cm gun and of the leichte Feldhaubitze (leFH) 18 10.5cm howitzer gun.
- **10.5 cm leichte Feldhaubitze (leFH) howitzer moved from Infanterie Division to Ost Division.**
- Infanterie Division Jäger-Division Jägers no longer get a scoped G43 rifle by default.
- Infanterie Division Jäger-Division Jägers and Stoßtruppen are now capped to 2 stars of veterancy instead of 3.
- Luftwaffe Division Pionere squads have had their StG 44 swapped out for an MP40.
- Luftwaffe Division Pionere squads have had their Panzerfaust removed; they keep the Panzerwurfmine (short-range hand-held AT grenade).
- Ost Division Ostruppen trench magazine K98 buffed to compensate for increased squad cost; instead of providing 2x trench mag K98s and taking up all upgrade slots, the upgrade now provides a trench mag K98 to each squadmember.
  - Cost of upgrade increased to 20 munitions.
  - Upgrade also available to Volkssturm militia.
- Ost Division Ostruppen extra squadmember upgrade cost decreased from 25 munitions to 20 munitions.

### Waffen-SS

- HQ Building damage modifier increased from 0.75 to 2 to match that of the USF Rifle Command.
- Propaganda doctrinal ability "Infiltrate Volkssturm Panzerjäger" nerfed.
  - Triple faust ability starts on cooldown.
  - Ability takes 10 seconds to complete infiltration.
- Propaganda Volkssturmgewehr accuracy decreased slightly at longer distances and can no longer burst fire.
- Propaganda Volkssturm infantry skill decreased from "Poor" to "Civilian"; cost unaffected.
- Panzer Command Panther now correctly receives +10% damage research.
