# v1.0.2 Release Notes

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Some veterancy bugs have been fixed.
  - Tank crews would receive incorrect veterancy levels from the Kampfkraftzentrum.
- Panzerjäger teams are now affected by purchased veterancy.
- Erroneous vanilla infantry discounts, notably on the SS-Sturmpioneers (24mp per reinforcement as opposed to 30mp) and SS-Sturmgrenadiers (28mp per reinforcement as opposed to 30mp) have been removed.
- [#231 - 28th USF soldiers (bloody buckets) still have spicy smoke, don't have stun grenade](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/231)
- [#232 - M4A2E8 price remains same as last version](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/232)

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Added Tier indicators on all basic base buildings.
  - For example, Soviet Rifle Command is now labelled as "[T1] Rifle Command" to make it clear that this building is referred to as tier 1.
- While not inherently a bug, demo charges can no longer be laid when units are garrisoned. The game does not distinguish between states of units garrisoned in buildings and units garrisoned in vehicles, and laying demo traps within vehicles was very easily exploitable.
  - This lack of distinction does not apparently apply when calculating cover, where there *is* a distinction.

### United States Forces

- M4A3E8 Sherman 76mm cost adjusted appropriately for all models of M4A3E8 Sherman 76mm.
  - Cheaper Armour Doctrine variant cost increased from 360 manpower and 100 fuel to 380 manpower and 100 fuel.
- Airborne paradrops can no longer be targeted within base sectors.
- M1903 Springfield rifles now use K98 graphics instead of Lee-Enfield graphics.

### British Forces

- Tank, Infantry, Mk III, Valentine XI Tank cost increased from 260 manpower and 60 fuel to 340 manpower and 60 fuel.
  - Tank, Infantry, Mk III, Valentine XI Command Tank cost decreased from 360 manpower and 50 fuel to 300 manpower and 40 fuel.
- Tank, Cruiser, Mk VIII, Cromwell IV (A27M) cost unchanged at 380 manpower and 90 fuel, but names were adjusted.
  - Tank, Cruiser, Mk VIII, Cromwell Command Tank (A27M) cost decreased from 380 manpower and 90 fuel to 380 manpower and 50 fuel.
- Tank, Cruiser, Mk VIII, Cromwell V (A27M) cost unchanged at 420 manpower and 120 fuel, but names were adjusted.
- Crewed weapon prices standardised.
  - Most crewed weapons now cost 260 manpower.
  - Land mattress cost increased from 360 manpower and 50 munitions to 400 manpower and 50 munitions.
  - Commando 3-inch mortar cost increased from 308 manpower and 35 munitions to 320 manpower and 35 munitions, above the standard 260 manpower cost due to the Elite skill of the squad; this was always true, but the UI did not reflect this skill level and has been updated accordingly.
- Commando infiltration truck now auto-targeted.
  - Commando squad inside can no longer deploy demolition charges while garrisoned in anything (trucks or buildings).
  - Other similar trucks are also auto-targeted.

### Soviet Union

- A visual joke has been added (will be reverted in v1.0.2.1) where T-34s now look like conscripts. In-game performance has not changed.
- Maxim HMG has been adjusted to be in line with other water-cooled machine guns (e.g. Vickers, .30 M1917, etc.).
- PTRS efficacy against infantry has been reduced.
  - PTRD-41 accuracy multiplier against infantry reduced from 0.75x to 0.5x.
  - PTRS-41 accuracy multiplier against infantry reduced from 0.75x to 0.5x.
  - Scoped PTRS-41 accuracy multiplier against infantry reduced from 0.75x to 0.6x.
  - Scoped PTRS-41 damage multiplier against units in heavy cover (i.e. garrison heavy, garrison halftrack, green) reduced from 1x to 0.75x.
- T-34-85 Ace has been locked behind either T3 with Heavy Armour Support upgrade or T4; previously, it was locked behind either T3 or T4. In effect, it now costs 60 more fuel.

### Axis (Common)

- Bunkers have had their received damage modifiers improved.
  - Pillbox damage modifiers improved from 0.25x to 0.15x.
    - In practice, this means that pillboxes can withstand two satchels instead of one.
  - Mortar bunker damage modifier improved from 0.25x to 0.1x.
- Scoped Sturmgewehrs and scoped Fallschirmjägergewehrs have been nerfed.
  - Damage multiplier against units in heavy cover (i.e. garrison heavy, garrison halftrack, green) reduced from 1x to 0.75x.
- Kampfkraft Centre renamed to Kampfkraftzentrum (KKZ).
- Kampfkraftzentrum Vehicle and Tank veterancy UI positions have been swapped; Vehicle Veterancy is now on the left, Tank Veterancy is now on the right.
- Kampfkraftzentrum is now accessible from the F5 button in the UI for SS.
  - KKZ is no longer accessible from the F2 button for Wehrmacht and cannot be added to the F6 button due to an engine hardcoded limit on number of buttons.
- Kampfkraftzentrum veterancy has been slightly nerfed.
  - Infantry Veterancy I cost increased from 100 manpower and 30 fuel to 200 manpower and 40 fuel.
  - Tank Veterancy I cost increased from 100 manpower and 30 fuel to 300 manpower and 30 fuel.
  - Tank Veterancy II cost increased from 300 manpower and 50 fuel to 300 manpower and 70 fuel.
  - Tank Veterancy III cost decreased from 300 manpower and 70 fuel to 300 manpower and 50 fuel.
- Munitions Blitz has been nerfed.
  - Previously, it would grant an instant 60 munitions in exchange for 80 manpower lost over 3 minutes.
  - Now, the ability grants 60 munitions over 1 minute in exchange for 10% manpower income lost for 5 minutes, meaning the ability is no longer instant.
  - The ability can still be stacked; with each successive use of the ability further reducing manpower income additively.
    - Mathematically, this means that the ability will cost roughly 150 manpower per use.
- Jagdpanzer IV main gun nerfed to match the Panther nerf.

### Wehrmacht

- **The manpower observation post is no longer buildable by any Wehrmacht unit.**
- Volksgrenadiers now come equipped with all StG 44s, but this effect is visual only (the weapons are just reskinned K98s).
- 5 cm Pak 38 hotkey is now T instead of A, as they were colliding with Panzerjäger teams.
- Penal Straf troops are no longer affected by purchased veterancy. Straf squads also do not have a chance to spawn with free veterancy.
- Panzer T1 officer, the command Panzer II Luchs, now requires 4 Command Points instead of 3 Command Points.
- Fallschirmjäger infantry and team weapons deployable from forward command buildings now require the normal buildings to be constructed first.
  - All infantry squads, MG42s, and mortars require T1 building constructed.
  - Raketenwerfers and infantry support guns require T2 building constructed.

### Waffen-SS

- **The manpower observation post is no longer buildable by any SS unit.**
  - Instead, they regain the ability to build the Feldfunkgerät. Feldfunkgerät now can serve as a forward retreat point.
- Some hotkeys in the T1 building (medic HQ) have been adjusted for collisions.
  - 600th SS-Fallschirmjägers Fallschirmjägers are now Z instead of F (to standardise with all other units in the top row, slot 2).
  - 600th SS-Fallschirmjägers Jägers are now W instead of G, as they were colliding with SS-Stoßtruppen.
  - Maschinengewehr 42 are now H instead of A, as they were colliding with 7.5 cm Panzerabwehrkanone 40.
- Panzer T3 officer, the command Panther, now requires 14 Command Points instead of 12 Command Points and also requires the T3 heavy tank research (Schwere Panzerabteilungen).
- Propaganda Tiger Ace free veterancy changed from vet 4 to vet 1, with vet 4 gained after researching third level of tank veterancy at the KKZ assuming no other veterancy was gained.
- Propaganda Volkssturm are no longer affected by purchased veterancy.
  - Propaganda Volkssturm Anti-Tank infantry are not affected by this change.
- Sturm Walloonians have had their panzerfaust replaced with hafthohlladung to decrease their versatility.
