# v1.1.3

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Hold Facing on light vehicles no longer permanently disable a light vehicle's movement.
- Registered artillery no longer randomly kills models on activation.
- German T2 officer strikes now correctly cancel on pin.
- [#72 - Panzer IV F1 Sprg. 34 Barrage not working](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/72)
- Cromwells, Churchills, and Valentines should no longer get stuck when trying to use HE and other abilities.
- [#160 - Wehrmacht Infanterie 5th Jaeger Div squad infil](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/160)
- [#328 - [BUG] Wehrmacht Tier 3 Global Upgrade "Rapid Mobilization" does not reduce the reinforcements cost of units](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/328)
- [#210 - USSR motorized doctrine glider is free](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/210)
- [#250 - USF AB glider costs no resources (same issue as ODON).](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/250)

## Miscellaneous Changes

- All decals have been removed from all vehicles.
  - Custom decals will no longer show on vehicles, but team colours will automatically be removed as well.
- Vehicles decrewed by flame attacks now have their crews roll out of the vehicle instead of vanishing.
- Added some descriptions written for Majors, provided by EugenRDR.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Officer auras have been removed.**
- **Majority of hotbar buffs and abilities have been removed.**
  - Situationally specific abilities, such as early warning, signal relay (reveal vehicles in the fog of war), and close the pocket remain.
- **All battlegroup prices have been adjusted to more closely match the units they provide.**
  - For example, regular units were calculated with the price of regular units for the faction, and the total cost of the units were added together.
  - All battlegroups cost slightly more than the cost of the units within the battlegroup, as there are substantial time savings on building the battlegroup units (battlegroup call-ins are instant).
- Officer loadouts have been standardised. Any officer who comes with a pistol will have a retinue leader.
  - For United States officers:
    - T1 officers are equipped with 20-round Thompson submachine guns.
    - T2 officers are equipped with M3 grease guns.
    - T3 officers are equipped with M1911 pistols.
    - Retinue members are equipped with M1 Garand rifles and retinue leaders are equipped with M1 carbines.
  - For British officers:
    - T1 and T2 officers are equipped with Sten guns.
    - T3 officers are equipped with Webley revolvers.
    - Retinue members are equipped with Lee-Enfield rifles and retinue leaders are equipped with Sten guns.
  - For German officers:
    - T1 and T2 officers are equipped with MP 40s.
    - T3 officers are equipped with Luger P08 pistols.
    - Retinue members are equipped with K98k rifles and retinue leaders are equipped with G 43 rifles.
  - For Soviet officers:
    - T1 officers are equipped with PPSh-41s.
    - T2 and T3 officers are equipped with TT-33 pistols.
    - Retinue members are equipped with Mosin-Nagant rifles and retinue leaders are equipped with SVT-40 rifles.
  - For SS officers:
    - T1 officers are equipped with StG 44s.
      - As a reminder, SS T1 officers cost more (300 manpower) and have higher skill (experienced) compared to other factions' T1 officers.
    - T2 and T3 officers are equipped with Luger P08 pistols.
      - The exception is the Sturm T2 officer, which comes with the Sturmpistole.
    - Retinue members are equipped with K98k rifles and retinue leaders are equipped with G 43 rifles.
- Reconnaissance units can no longer capture objectives while camouflaged (crawling).
  - This inability to cap now applies to all units that could camouflage while crawling.
- Infiltration (camouflaged crawling) ability on all units now requires 2 CP to activate.
- Mad Minute and Fire Superiority now properly are locked out when sprint is activated first.
- Incendiary pool damage over time increased from 3.5 HP per second to 5 HP per second, increasing the lethality of staying in incendiary pools.
- AT guns take a little longer to destroy concrete structures in general.
  - Their damage bonus against defensive structures, such as sandbags, has been reduced from generally around 2x to 3x to 0.5x.
- Artillery penetration has been standardised around a relatively low value.
  - Heavy artillery (150mm+) have 340 penetration, up from 35 penetration.
  - Soviet medium artillery (122mm) have 280 penetration, down from 275-550.
  - Medium artillery (105mm) have 210 penetration, down from 450 or 550.
  - For reference, a PaK 40 anti-tank gun has 320 penetration.
- Long Shot abilities now require the target to remain within range until the gun fires.
- Crush the Pocket abilities no longer fire light mortars on all frontline territories when activated.
- Majority of machine guns no longer automatically target planes.
  - Exceptions include pintle machine guns (e.g. on tanks) and AA guns on AA vehicles.
- Costs of all squad marksman rifles (designated marksman rifles, or DMRs) have been reduced by 50%.
  - Exceptions include the StG 44 and FG 42.
- Landmines no longer have a chance to defuse on detonation.
- Ramming abilities now cause engine damage after 6.5 seconds of activation instead of 4 seconds.

### United States Forces

- **Riflemen slow M1 Garand rifles now fire faster.**
  - Cooldown range decreased from 1.7-2.1 seconds between each shot to 1.4-1.8 seconds between each shot for a 18.75% faster fire rate.
- T1 Lieutenant Unlock upgrade time decreased from 145 seconds to 75 seconds.
- T1 Lieutenant Unlock upgrade now grants 512.5 XP (0.5 CP) on upgrade, T2 Captain Unlock upgrade now grants 512.5 XP (0.5 CP) on upgrade, and T3 Major Unlock upgrade now grants 1025 XP (1 CP) on upgrade.
  - For reference, Wehrmacht gains 155 XP on T1 construction, 405 XP on T2 construction, 700 XP on T3 construction, and 740 XP on T4 construction, for a total of 2000 XP, or 2 CP, on completion of all structures.
- Tank Destroyer Shotguns now have an icon.
- Airborne T1 Offensive P-47 Strafing Run cost decreased from 50 munitions to 20 munitions.
- Airborne T2 Offensive P-47 Bombing Run cost increased from 120 munitions to 150 munitions.
- Airborne T2 Defensive P-47 Loiter cost decreased from 180 munitions to 85 munitions.
- Airborne Paratrooper Fire Team and Assault Team both are now locked behind 2 Command Points.
- Airborne paradropped infantry reinforcement cost and rates now standardised to normal rates.
  - In the future, their reinforcement time will decrease near beacons.
- Airborne and Ranger Forward Encampments now require the Forward Headquarters upgrade to construct.
- 60mm mortar smoke now fires as quickly as its primary barrage.
- 60mm mortars now properly have 3 man crews when recrewed.
- Composition B anti-tank weapons stick to vehicles.
- M1 81mm mortar M45 delay fuze barrage range increased from 80 to 100.
- M10 tank destroyer cost increased from 330 manpower and 65 fuel to 360 manpower and 75 fuel.
- M10 tank destroyer now locked behind Major when playing as Airborne doctrine; Tank Destroyer doctrine unaffected.
- T34 Calliope rocket barrage now has slightly tighter scatter, decreased rate of fire (barrage lasts longer), and has had its cost reduced from 150 munitions for a full barrage to 120 munitions and 90 munitions for a half barrage to 75 munitions.
- 76mm gun penetration increased from 290/465/640 for far/mid/close to 320/500/680 for far/mid/close.
  - M5 3 inch AT gun penetration increased by the same amount. APDS penetration increased from 290/560/895 to 320/600/935.
  - Soviet 76mm Shermans are included in this penetration increase.
- Allied War Machine renamed to Armored Expeditionary Force and cost decreased from 90 fuel to 100 manpower and 25 fuel.
- Rear Echelon M1 carbine reverted to M1903 Springfield bolt-action rifles.
- Ambulance ram has been removed because it was a joke ability.

### British Forces

- **Most British infantry squad sizes decreased from 5 to 4 on start.**
  - Squad size can be increased back to 5 with a T1 upgrade.
  - Guards Anvil squad size increase is now locked behind this upgrade.
- T1 officer offensive barrage cooldown time increased from 60 seconds to 90 seconds.
- Guards no longer have access to Sexton self-propelled guns.
- Paratroopers no longer have access to Fireflies.
- Commandos Panzer IV Ausf. H is no longer Clandestine.
- Sherman Firefly Tulip rockets no longer have vastly increased accuracy and damage against vehicles and heavy tanks.
- Land Mattress default barrage cost decreased from 180 munitions to 150 munitions and cooldown decreased from 360 seconds to 300 seconds.
- Churchill Mk VII (A42) cost decreased from 460 manpower, 50 munitions, and 200 fuel to 460 manpower, 50 munitions, and 160 fuel.
- Forward Headquarters and Forward Encampments now require the Forward Observation Posts tech unlock.
- Forward Observation Posts tech now requires 2 Command Points.
- Recce Team cost decreased from 180 manpower to 150 manpower.

### Soviet Union

- **Soviet 85mm penetration statistics have been drastically nerfed.**
  - Regular shot penetration has been decreased from 450/675/900 for far/mid/close to 320/500/680 for far/mid/close.
    - These values match the buffed 76mm Sherman main gun penetration statistics.
  - APCR shot penetration has been decreased from 500/810/1170 for far/mid/close to 350/550/820 for far/mid/close.
- Motorized Leytenant infiltration cost increased from 210 manpower and 20 munitions to 240 manpower and 20 munitions.
- Soviet looted Panzerfaust hotkey changed from C (conflicting with smoke grenade) to V.
- OB-25 support gun has been nerfed.
  - It no longer has access to HEAT rounds.
  - Its regular scatter has been increased by 33% from 9 to 12.
  - Its distance scatter has been increased by 100% from 10 to 20.
- Soviet StuG III Ausf. G is no longer Clandestine.

### Axis (Common)

- MG 34 suppression increased by 0.0.5 from 0.022 to 0.027 per bullet.
- MG 42 cost increased from 290 manpower and 30 munitions to 320 manpower and 45 munitions.
- Opel Blitz truck cost increased from 140 manpower to 180 manpower and 10 fuel.
- Schu-mine 42 accuracy increased so that they can no longer miss infantry.
- Riegel mine pressure plate changed to target only vehicles and above.
- Teller mine cost increased from 25 munitions to 50 munitions.
- Concrete bunker received damage modifier decreased from 0.15x to 0.12x; in other words, they are marginally more survivable.
- Concrete bunker gunner kill threshold reduced from 60% to 33%, meaning that it must be more damaged before the gunner is killed.
  - Also applies to Pantherturms.
- Faustpatrone now behaves similarly to Panzerf채uste in that they require the target to be in range until the weapon activates.
- Scoped FG 42 burst time decreased from 0.5/0.75/1 for far/mid/close to 0.15/0.25/0.5, matching the scoped StG 44.
- Raketenwerfer has been nerfed to be in line with Panzerschreck offensive performance.
  - Raketenwerfer at all ranges is still more accurate than the Panzerschreck.
- Flame Projectors upgrade on Sd.Kfz. 251 halftrack is now non-doctrinal.
- 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegesch체tz 18 has been nerfed.
  - It no longer has access to hollow charge (HEAT) rounds.
  - Its regular scatter has been increased by 33% from 9 to 12.
  - Its distance scatter has been increased by 100% from 10 to 20.

### Wehrmacht

- **Rapid Mobilization upgrade buffed to include a -35% faction-wide upkeep rate.**
  - Cost of the upgrade also increased from 120 munitions and 30 fuel to 240 munitions and 50 fuel.
  - Also fixes a bug where the reinforcement cost does not decrease.
- Tiger II cost increased from 840 manpower and 250 fuel to 1100 manpower and 320 fuel.
- Tiger II long range shot ability range decreased from 95 to 85.
- Beutepanzer T-34 moved from Straf Division to Ost Division.
  - Studies of in-game footage showed that players rarely built the T-34 in favour of building StuH 42s instead, and Ost has poor direct fire anti-infantry options.
- Aufkl채rer squad cost decreased from 150 manpower to 120 manpower.

### Waffen-SS

- Propaganda Tiger Ace call-in cooldown time decreased from 15 minutes to 10 minutes, but cooldown starts only after the last Tiger Ace was destroyed.
- Mechanisierte Forward Observation Bunker (120mm mortar bunker) loses its `tactical_mortar_bunker` type, meaning it is much less survivable to most weapons than before.
  - For reference, satchels were virtually useless against it before; now, 2 satchels reduces the HP of the mortar bunker to roughly 2%.
- Anti-Tank Team squad leader weapon changed from an StG 44 to an MP 40.
- SS-Panzerj채ger 17. Grenadiers squad leader weapon changed from an StG 44 to an MP 40.
- Sturmtiger cost reduced from 740 manpower, 200 munitions, and 190 fuel to 740 manpower, 135 munitions, and 190 fuel.
  - Cost to reload decreased from 200 munitions to 135 munitions.
