# v1.1.4.6

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Mitigated the effects of an unintended hotbar ability present due to the Mod Tools being outdated, as per [this document](https://www.coh2.org/topic/108687/guide-merge-the-patch-with-outdated-tools).
  - The steps listed in the document were not followed, but the document serves as evidence as to why it seems so difficult to fix seemingly obvious errors.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Forward Headquarters in civilian structures have been reworked.
  - Battlegroups now exist only on buildable forward headquarters, such as:
    - United States Forward Headquarters;
    - British Forward Assembly;
    - Soviet Forward Headquarters;
    - Wehrmacht Kommandobunker;
    - Waffen-SS Feldfunkgerät.
  - Forward Headquarters hotbar ability has been removed.
  - Forward headquarters of all varieties can no longer serve as a supply point for cutoff sectors.
  - Reinforcement from civilian forward headquarters is only possible when the territory that the forward headquarters is in is both in supply and not actively being captured.
    - This change has also been applied to other types of forward headquarters that are not forward encampments.
  - Most critically, **unoccupied converted forward headquarters buildings can now be decapped**.
    - In other words, if the enemy has a forward headquarters building, it is no longer necessary to demolish the civilian structure; simply reverting it back to neutral will be enough.
    - Reverting a forward headquarters building to neutral takes 30 seconds, though there is no animation at this time.
  - Cost has been changed from 150 manpower and 30 fuel to 240 manpower, and it now takes 30 seconds for an infantry squad to convert a civilian building into a forward headquarters.
    - The primary reason for this change is that forward headquarters are so much more vulnerable to decapture that the steep 30 fuel cost would be too much.
  - Assorted abilities on forward headquarters no longer exist on converted forward headquarters.
- Officer alternate abilities now describe how many rounds they will fire if they fire a different number of rounds than the default of 9.
- Scorched Earth as a concept now has more prominence amongst specific doctrinal units.
  - If a unit can scorch territory, it cannot capture territory.
  - These doctrinal units can only scorch defensively; i.e., they can scorch neutral or allied points but not enemy points.
  - Currently, the following units are responsible for scorched earth:
    - Soviet Artillery penal battalions;
    - Wehrmacht Straf Straf squads;
    - Waffen-SS Propaganda Volkssturm squads.
- **Piercing effects from high-explosive shells fired from vehicles have been removed.**
  - This change means that all high-explosive shells fired from vehicles will now collide with objects between the vehicles and their targets instead of phasing through them.

### United States Forces

- Ranger 5th Ranger Battalion Mechanized Group deployment cooldown increased from 120 seconds to 240 seconds.
- M4A3E2 "Jumbo" Sherman is now locked behind the T4 Armored Expeditionary Force upgrade.

### Wehrmacht

- Command bunker is no longer automatically targeted by weapons to prevent infantry from revealing themselves when they walk close to one.

### Waffen-SS

- Mortar bunker is no longer automatically targeted by weapons to prevent infantry from revealing themselves when they walk close to one.
