# v1.1.4.7

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- B-4 203mm artillery was incorrectly nerfed; the B-4 203mm artillery weapon used on B-4 203mm artillery pieces in-game has been correctly adjusted.
  - Refer to patchnotes from the [v1.1.4 release](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/blob/master/Spearhead-II-Release-Notes/v1.1.4.md) for more details.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Sandbags now take much longer to build.
- Tank traps of all varieties are now tougher but take longer to repair.
  - Roadblocks take much longer to build than before.
- Barbed wire now takes much shorter time to build.
- All artillery of calibre 15 cm/150mm or higher now gain 100 experience points when they fire their shots.
  - It is a bit exploitable to be able to grind veterancy with Sturmpanzer IVs and KV-2s by firing at the ground, but in most circumstances, there will not be enough time to achieve any significant amount of ground-fire grinding before the vehicles are needed in combat.
- Hand-held rocket anti-tank weapons, such as Bazookas and Panzerschrecks, now deal 5% deflection damage.
- Team weapon objects now cost population capacity.
  - Heavy howitzers cost the most in terms of population.
- Critical repair abilities on all units will now target mobility criticals in order of decreasing severity.
  - For example, a vehicle suffering from immobilisation (or mobility lost), a destroyed engine, a destroyed main gun, and an injured loader will have the criticals removed in the order of immobilisation (or mobility lost) first, then destroyed engine, and then destroyed main gun or injured loader in some random order.
- Aircraft are now much harder to shoot down in general, but now receive suppression, which decreases their accuracy.
  - When loitering, their vision cones are very poor, making it relatively easy to dodge their sightlines.
  - The more anti-aircraft platforms available, the better off a player will be, but no amount of anti-aircraft will grant immunity to air attack.
  - Not building anti-aircraft platforms is ill-advised.
- Scorched Earth has received continued adjustment.
  - Users of the ability may now retreat or move before the ability completes.
    - In order to implement this feature properly, the length of the scorched earth ability has been increased by 1 second for both offensive and defensive scorched earth, though the actual time before the point becomes disabled remains the same.
  - Ability may no longer be used on secured territory.
  - Ability may no longer be used on territory that is already scorched.
  - Defensive scorched earth may no longer be used on neutral territory; territory must be allied.

#### Computer Opponents

- Standard AI difficulty now takes into account hidden units capturing control points.
- Hard AI difficulty now takes into account hidden units capturing control points, values heavy cover much more, and has had its manpower bonus increased from 125% to 150%.
- Expert AI now has:
  - Takes into account hidden units capturing control points;
  - Values heavy cover much more;
  - Had manpower bonus increased from 160% to 250%, fuel bonus increased from 120% to 160%, and munitions bonus increased from 120% to 150%;
  - Remembering and determining hidden units in general;
  - Retreats much more frequently to prevent wipes;
  - Increased manpower gain in the event it has less manpower than its opponents;
  - Values victory points much more than before;
  - Much higher reaction time and danger avoidance rates.

### Soviet Union

- Hotkey for 122mm howitzer changed from R (colliding with Rifle Command) to A.
- Hotkey for 152mm howitzer changed from R (colliding with Rifle Command) to B.

### Axis (Common)

- Concrete bunkers of all varieties now have 300% HP but also take 300% as much damage as before.
  - In combat, this change has no effect, but it heavily decreases repair speed.
- Heavy machine gun upgrades for concrete bunkers now cost 3 population space and incur additional upkeep costs.
  - Currently, regular dirt bunkers are not affected.
- Raketenwerfer range decreased from 75 (average range of main tank guns) to 65 (5 more than Panzerschreck range).
- Goliaths are now only camouflaged when stationary and can be revealed by nearby enemy units.
  - Their front armour is also reduced from 300 (20 short of a Puma at 320) to 35 (20 more than a Kubelwagen at 15).
  - Their rear armour was reduced from 100 to 15.
  - To compensate, its health has been increased from 80 to 150.

### Wehrmacht

- Panzer T2 officer alternate offensive ability cost decreased from 120 munitions to 75 munitions.
- Leichte now has free Light Vehicle veterancy on Battle Phase unlock.
