# v1.1.4.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Moved suppression debuff from PzB anti-tank rifle to RPzB Panzerschreck.
- Soviet Tank T-34-85 Ace now requires the T-34-85 Production technology to unlock.
- Custom decals will now show again on vehicles, as the attempted fix did not actually address the desired issue (removal of all colours from vehicles).
- Fixed text bug where Fallschirmjäger T1 and T2 officers were all called Leutnant, and T3 officers were called Hauptmann.
- Kettenhunde forward deploy ability cost decreased from 360 manpower and 20 munitions to 200 manpower and 20 munitions to match the unit cost.
- Jagdtiger button is now visible from the Waffen-SS T3 build menu.
- Scoped anti-tank rifles (including scoped Boys AT and scoped PTRS) are now unified in their statistics modifiers against infantry (largely ineffective).
- British Logistics upgrade was providing +15% manpower income instead of the advertised +10% manpower income.
- [#309 - Raketenwerfers, PaK 43s, and BS-3s would target infantry even with prioritise vehicles enabled.](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/309)

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Rocket anti-tank weapons are now additionally debuffed by +10% received accuracy.
- **Remove all unit limits from towed/crewed artillery pieces.**
  - After consideration of the economic impact of firing these pieces, it was determined that it is unlikely for players to be able to sustain enough of them for limits to be necessary anyway.

### United States Forces

- M36 Jackson tank destroyer no longer has access to high-explosive shot.
- M4A3E2 "Jumbo" Sherman armour increased from 1650 to 1820.

### British Forces

- Boys AT rifle accuracy modifier against infantry decreased from 75% to 50%, matching other anti-tank rifles.
- British starting resources decreased from 400 manpower and 20 fuel to 310 manpower and 20 fuel.
  - For reference, the faction with the next lowest starting resources is the Waffen-SS at 340 manpower and 10 fuel.

### Soviet Union

- **Soviet wheeled machine gun speed now matches vanilla wheeled machine gun speeds.**
- Tank fuel drop cost increased from 360 manpower to 360 manpower and 50 munitions.
- Naiman hand mortar scatter generally increased slightly from 6 to 7.5, and scatter penalty for fog of war increased from 25% to 200%.

### Axis (Common)

- Teller mines now have almost guaranteed penetration against all vehicles.
- Haftholladung anti-tank weapons can now be used against moving vehicles.
- Raketenwerfers may no longer garrison buildings.

### Wehrmacht

- **All officer abilities have been implemented.**
  - Officer Plan reflects changes that were determined during this implementation phase.
- **Panzerbüchse 41 anti-tank rifles on pioneers no longer requires Battle Phase 1 to unlock.**
  - Cost also decreased from 40 munitions to 30 munitions.
- Sturmpanzer IV "Brummbär" has had its scatter unified with other artillery tanks to 300% angle and distance scatter when firing into the fog of war, and its aim time has been increased by 1 second.
  - On average, the main gun will also land short.

### Waffen-SS

- **All T3 officer abilities have been implemented.**
  - Officer Plan reflects changes that were determined during this implementation phase.
