# v1.1.4

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- SS-Sturmpionere call-in after destruction of HQ now correctly reinforces with 2 squads instead of 1.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Anti-tank gun accuracy against infantry reduced to 10%, and accuracy against team weapon objects reduced by 50%. Damage dealt by anti-tank guns against team weapon objects reduced by 75%.
- All crewed weapons now share the same suppression behaviour as Raketenwerfers; in other words, anti-tank guns, artillery pieces, and towed field guns can be suppressed.
  - Unlike Raketenwerfers, these crewed weapons cannot retreat.
- Off-map 105mm artillery now deals 10% deflection damage.
- Light mortars, such as 60mm and 2-inch mortars, now cost 10 munitions for a regular barrage.
- Rocket handheld anti-tank weapons, such as Bazookas and Panzerschrecks, now debuff their holders with increased targeting priority and 150% increased received suppression.
- Vickers-type machine guns, including the American M1917 .30 calibre machine gun, the British Vickers machine gun, the German MG08 machine gun, and Soviet Maxim machine gun, have had their accuracy reduced from 0.25/0.5/0.55 for far/mid/near to 0.2/0.5/0.55.
  - For comparison, the MG34 has accuracy values of 0.16/0.4/0.45 for far/mid/near.
- All air-dropped munitions abilities have had their prices increased from 50 fuel to 300 manpower and 55 fuel.
- M16 Halftrack accuracy reduced from 0.2/0.4/0.5 for far/mid/near to 0.14/0.35/0.5.
- Toggle high-explosive weapons suffer from the same amount of scatter when firing into the fog of war as other vehicles that fire high-explosive rounds by default.
  - Their normal performance has been reduced somewhat as well, to hit more ground and objects between the vehicle and the target.

### United States Forces

- **T2 officer alternate abilities are now implemented for all doctrines.**
  - Officer Plan reflects changes that were determined during this implementation phase.
- **T3 officer abilities are now implemented for all doctrines.**
- Thunder Run is now locked behind 11 CP.
- M8 Greyhound CP requirement decreased from 4 CP to 3 CP.
- M20 Utility Car CP requirement decreased from 4 CP to 2 CP.

### British Forces

- Land Mattress default barrage cost increased from 150 munitions to 180 munitions.
  - Half-barrage cost increased from 115 munitions to 135 munitions.
- Tank no longer has access to Sexton self-propelled guns.
- PIAT launchers may now be auto-fired regardless of line of sight.

### Soviet Union

- B-4 203mm artillery damage cone has been tightened, more resembling how other large calibre artillery guns work.
  - Maximum damage decreased such that it can only one-shot vehicles up to and including heavy medium tanks.
- SG-43 Goryunov heavy machine gun accuracy decreased from 0.25/0.5/0.55 for far/mid/near to 0.2/0.5/0.55.
  - Behaviour generally now more or less matches the Maxim HMG except it has a noticeably longer burst time and can fire one more burst before reloading.
- ZiS-2 57mm anti-tank gun moved from Artillery Doctrine to Motorised Doctrine.
- SU-152 152mm self-propelled gun moved from Tank Destroyer Doctrine to Artillery Doctrine.
- B-4 203mm artillery moved from Rifle Doctrine and Artillery Doctrine to Shock Doctrine.
- T-34-85 tanks have been reworked somewhat.
  - T-34-85 tanks have been removed from Shock Doctrine.
  - T-34-85 tanks now require a T4 research unlock to build, and they replace T-34s in the T3 building.
  - Motorised T-34-85 tank cost decreased from 420 manpower and 115 fuel to 380 manpower and 110 fuel.
  - Tank T-34-85 tank cost decreased from 380 manpower and 90 fuel to 350 manpower and 75 fuel.
    - Tank Doctrine can research a very expensive upgrades that discounts T-34-85 tanks even further, from 350 manpower and 75 fuel to 250 manpower and 50 fuel.

### Axis (Common)

- Schu-mine 42s can now only kill 2 models per explosion; their explosion graphic has been updated to reflect this change.

### Wehrmacht

- Majority of infantry can no longer build any landmines except Schu-mine 42s.
- **10.5 cm leichte Feldhaubitze (leFH) howitzer moved from Ost Division to Fallschirmjäger Division.**
  - This change reveals the Pantherturm in the Pioneer menu for Ost Division, as well.
- Sturmhaubitze (StuH) 42 HEAT ability damage reduced such that it now barely cannot one-shot medium tanks, from guaranteeing one-shots of all Allied vehicles on penetration.
