# v1.1.5

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- [#329 - [BUG] V-Patronen (Incendiary Rounds) ability not available for Hanomag Halftrack](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/329)
- Wehrmacht Infanterie players could no longer purchase Light Vehicle veterancy at the Kampfkraftzentrum.
- Katyusha rocket launchers now cost 85 munitions to fire when in counterbattery mode instead of paying 100 munitions to enter counterbattery mode.

## Notes

- 20mm flak emplacements currently do not shoot down planes properly.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Unit veterancy has been given an examination and some discrepancies have been resolved.**
  - Some scouts and snipers were receiving bonuses far in excess of what the text would indicate was intended.
    - Intended veterancy bonuses for scouts at veterancy level 5 are 40% increased accuracy, 20% reduced hit chance, 30% reduced received suppression, 30% faster reload times, and +25 sight radius.
      - Weapon range bonus was removed during this patch.
    - Actual veterancy bonuses for scouts at veterancy level 5 were 224% increased accuracy, 20% reduced hit chance, 64% reduced received suppression, 64% faster reload times, and +25 sight radius.
  - Light vehicles would gain negative received accuracy at veterancy level 4, making them virtually impossible to hit.
  - Some tanks would share veterancy gains from each other even if there was no reason for them to do so.
  - Most indirect fire platforms did not benefit from veterancy in their abilities, and artillery without a direct fire capability would not benefit from veterancy at all.
  - Higher levels of veterancy (level 4 and level 5) were frequently unobtainable due to extremely high experience requirements; most units would die long before reaching veterancy level 4.
  - Range increases from veterancy have universally been removed.
    - On vehicles, range increase from veterancy has been replaced with +4% armour per veterancy level.
- Officers that could plant demolition charges can no longer do so.
- Fire for Effect Barrages have been renamed to Fire Missions.
- 75mm light artillery smoke lasts for 30 seconds instead of the standard 20 seconds.
- Self-propelled rocket artillery of all types no longer have a build limit.
- Most HEAT-based anti-tank weapons now have a very small area of effect damage radius.
  - Haftholladung anti-tank weapons have very large splash radii, which mainly serves as a debuff as the squad using the weapon will likely receive damage.
- Long-range tank smoke launcher ability cost increased from 20 munitions to 40 munitions.
  - This change affects Sherman smoke launchers and Valentine smoke launchers.
  - Smoke dischargers (which create smoke on top of the tank itself) have not been changed.
- Trenches no longer affect pathfinding, meaning units can now walk through them.
- Ramming no longer has a 2x damage multiplier against vehicles.
  - Also, vehicles may no longer target team weapons with ram.
- All projectiles will always be visible through the fog of war.
- Endurance Training (squad always sprints) and First Aid Training (squad heals out of combat) are no longer mutually exclusive.
- Advanced Gunnery (squad has less scatter) and Firing Drills (squad has faster reloads) on indirect fire team weapons now affect all abilities used by those team weapons.
  - Previously, it only affected auto-fire.
- Camouflage netting on emplacements now properly apply a -15% received accuracy bonus.
- M15A1 AA Halftrack .50 calibre machine gun accuracy reduced from 0.2/0.45/0.5 for far/mid/near to 0.14/0.35/0.5.
  - These accuracy values are the same as those of the M16 Halftrack.
- Doctrine descriptions have been updated to reflect new rosters.

### United States Forces

- Ranger 155mm gun M1 "Long Tom" artillery has been removed for the time being.
  - It will be readded in another US doctrine soon.
- Ranger Jumbo cost increased from 640 manpower and 190 fuel to 740 manpower and 220 fuel.
  - For comparison, this new price is 10 more fuel than an Axis Tiger I.
  - Build time has also been increased from 70 seconds to 90 seconds.
- Tank Destroyer loiter has been nerfed somewhat.
  - Cost increased from 240 munitions to 600 manpower, 240 munitions, and 120 fuel.
  - Ability area has been decreased from a circle of radius 120 units to a circle of radius 95 units.
  - Range of rockets decreased from 225 to 125.
  - Total scatter decreased, but accuracy remains unchanged.
  - Suppression effects have been increased.
  - Number of aircraft per loiter decreased from 9 to 7.
- Rear echelon units cost increased from 180 manpower to 200 manpower to build on game start.
  - Reinforcement cost remains 18 manpower per model.
  - The cost drops back down to 180 manpower on T1 research.

### British Forces

- **All T3 officer abilities have been implemented.**
- Churchill horizontal turret traverse speed increased from 10 degrees per second to 23 degrees per second.
  - Vertical turret traverse speed increased from 9 degrees per second to 26 degrees per second.
- 17-pounder gun damage range decreased from 400-430 to 240-350.
  - For comparison, a Cromwell 75mm gun has a damage range of 220-330.
  - Comet APDS damage remains unchanged at a damage range of 260-280.
- Sexton 25-pounder rounds now use the 88mm high-explosive effect instead of the 105mm high-explosive effect.

### Soviet Union

- **All officer abilities have been implemented.**
- **T0 basic poor infantry now follow a tiered pricing structure.**
  - Conscripts and engineers cost increased from 180 manpower to 220 manpower on game start.
  - With each tier of building built, they become cheaper to build:
    - T1: Conscripts and engineers cost 200 manpower;
    - T2: Conscripts and engineers cost 180 manpower;
    - T3: Conscripts and engineers cost 170 manpower;
    - T4: Conscripts and engineers cost 160 manpower.
- BM-13 Katyusha rocket launcher full barrage ability cost increased from 75 munitions to 85 munitions.
  - Half barrage ability cost increased from 35 munitions to 55 munitions.
- T-34-85 population space requirement decreased from 18 to 14.
- Soviet DShK bunker sight range increase decreased from 60 to 20.
  - By default, the sight range of a bunker is 70; this change reduces the maximum sight range of a machine gun bunker from 130 to 90.
- Some text has been changed for some vehicles:
  - M4C Sherman has been renamed to M4A2 Sherman.
  - T-34/76D has been renamed to T-34.
  - T-34/85 has been renamed to T-34-85.

### Axis (Common)

- Flame Projectors upgrade on Sd.Kfz. 251 halftracks no longer locks out camouflage by providing smoke dischargers.
  - This change was to prevent a bug where camouflaged halftracks that then researched Flame Projectors would be permanently immobile.
- Schu-mine 42s can no longer damage vehicles it ordinarily cannot penetrate.
- Panther tank in general has been buffed slightly.
  - Panther Ausf. A tank cost has been decreased from 680 manpower and 200 fuel to 500 manpower and 160 fuel.
  - Panther Ausf. G tank cost has been decreased from 700 manpower and 210 fuel to 560 manpower and 180 fuel.
  - For Wehrmacht and SS Panzer, the timing of Panther Ausf. G tank has been switched with that of the Tiger I.
    - For Wehrmacht, the Panther is available from T3, while the Tiger I is available from T4.
    - For SS, the Panther is available without the T3 heavy tank research (Schwere Panzerabteilungen) while the Tiger I is now locked.
  - For SS Jäger, the timing has not changed.
- Hotkey for Anti-Aircraft mode on 2 cm Flak emplacements changed from E (colliding with Hold Fire) to V.
- Anti-tank guns and howitzers now fall under Vehicle Veterancy instead of Support Veterancy.
  - 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegeschütz 18 (7,5 cm le.IG 18) light howitzers still fall under Support Veterancy.

### Wehrmacht

- Leichte Panther Command Tank hotkey changed from A (colliding with Panther Ausf. A tank) to Q.
- Panzer Tiger II hotkey changed from T (colliding with Tiger I tank after teching change) to B.

### Waffen-SS

- **All officer abilities have been implemented.**
- Jäger Division may now build 10.5 cm leFH 18 howitzers.
- Propaganda Volkssturm are no longer locked behind 1 Command Point.
  - Defensive Scorched Earth was nerfed in its usage, making the lock unnecessary.
