# v1.1.1.3

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Airborne infantry can now capture points again after Infiltration Assault has ended.
- Airborne T2 Captain alternate offensive ability (pair of 500 lb bombs) now correctly drops two bombs.
- M36 Jackson main gun no longer fires before the animation completes.
- Heavy crewed AT guns (i.e. PaK 43, BS-3) projectiles now correctly travel at fast speeds.
- Added sound cue to Soviet T1 officer default defensive smoke ability.
- Criticals on vehicle death resulting in vehicles with 0 HP fixed.
- SS base bunkers no longer incur population upkeep.
- [#169 - GrW 81mm Mortar refused to fire smoke barrage](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/169)
- [#344 - [BUG] Typo on Wehrmacht Grenadier Rifle Grenade ability](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/344)
- Grenades, satchels, and rifle grenades can be thrown up/fired up hills and weird terrain.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Radio Net bonus changed from 11.1% increase in rate of fire and 5% increase in line of sight per stack to 8% increase in accuracy, 5% increase in line of sight, and 80% multiplier to received suppression per stack.
- Ammo rack can now only occur if a target vehicle is at or below 30% health.
- 75mm artillery and equivalents have been nerfed again (USF pack howitzer, Scott, OB-25, leIG).
  - The effects of the nerf are not profound as they primarily kill via infantry criticals.
- 152mm now gib infantry when they kill them.

### United States Forces

- M1 Garand Global Requisition now takes 45 seconds.
- P-47 Thunderbolts firing .50 MGs now have 50% more health.
- P-47 Thunderbolt .50 MGs now deal splash damage.

### British Forces

- De Lisle carbine (used by United States Forces as well) adjusted to match other DMRs in role.

### Axis (Common)

- Sturmgewehr 44 has been buffed slightly.
  - Slightly increased long range performance.
  - Increased number of bursts before reload.
  - Scoped and IR StGs have been granted 80 range to match regular DMRs.
- Fallschirmjägergewehr 42 variants have been adjusted (generally nerfed).
  - Scoped FG 42s now behave similarly to other scoped weapons (damage is highest at max range).
  - Regular FG 42s share similar a damage curve to StGs (medium range is optimal).
