# v1.1.1.5

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Fix Leichte officers calling artillery strikes on themselves.
- [#356 - [BUG] SU Shock Trooper Assault Squad Hotkey Overlap](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/356)
  - Shock assault troops satchel hotkey changed from C (colliding with RGD-1 smoke grenade) to V.
- [#345 - [BUG] Combat Driving does not increase Health](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/345)
  - Armour skirts are affected by this bug as well, meaning that Panther tanks with skirts at maximum health now have a roughly 65% chance of surviving an SU-100 shot, whereas Panther tanks without skirts will always be destroyed in a single SU-100 shot. Performance of bigger calibre guns, such as the IS-2 gun, will still one-shot any Panther tank.
- [#280 - UKF Royal Armoured Regiment Command Valentine Calls Down Artillery on itself](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/280)
- [#78 - B4 Counter Barrage not firing](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/78)
- [#187 - Issues with using B4 Artillery Shots](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/187)
  - HE shot was removed as it does not really fit the role of the artillery piece.
- Unloaded Sturmtigers captured by British players can now reload their main gun.
- [#251 - Soviet Bunker can upgrade Dshk without 'Forward HQ' Upgrade.](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/251)
- Soviet and German bunkers may no longer have multiple upgrades at once.

### Global

- All mortar basic barrages now cost munitions to fire.
  - Light mortars, such as 60mm and 2-inch mortars, now cost 5 munitions for a regular barrage.
  - Medium mortars, such as 81mm, 82mm, and 3-inch mortars, now cost 10 munitions for a regular barrage.
- Counterbattery fire now consumes munitions.
  - Counterbattery abilities do not consume munitions on activation.
  - When the counterbattery ability activates, it automatically drains munitions from the player's munitions.
    - If there are insufficient munitions for the ability to activate, the counterbattery ability will do nothing.
  - The cost for counterbattery varies depending on the size of the weapon.
    - Typically, the cost for a counter barrage costs the same as the basic barrage.
- Removed joke veterancy text.
- Removed damage bonuses of most explosive weapons (e.g. tank HE, grenades) against buildings.
  - Maluses, such as those applied to some artillery, were not removed.
  - Damage bonuses of most flamethrower-based weapons were not removed.
    - Flame grenade damage bonuses, such as molotovs and German incendiary grenades, were removed.
- Coordinated barrages (e.g. victor target) have been removed.
- Retreat smoke on all units that have them, including those granted by upgrade, now have a 2 second delay before they activate on hit.
- Pinned officers can no longer complete their artillery call-ins unless it is called directly on themselves.
- Grenade assaults will now enter cooldown the moment the first man in the assault throws his grenade.
- Smoke grenades that do not explode on impact now fizzle out their smoke.
  - There is no gameplay impact, as this is purely a visual change.
- Strategic points are now passable by all units.
- Incendiary rounds have been nerfed in general.
  - Number of fire pools has been decreased (mostly for game performance reasons).
  - Damage has been changed from a 75% random chance for a model to die every 1.35 seconds to a constant health drain at a rate of 3.5 HP per second per fire pool.
- Anti-tank guns no longer gain vastly improved accuracy against units in heavy (green) cover.
  - They do retain a slight accuracy bonus against units in buildings (garrison) cover, but this accuracy bonus was reduced from +400% to +100% instead.

### United States Forces

- Slow version of the M1 carbine has had its fire rate increased.
- Added explosive effects to 60mm mortar smoke and pack howitzer smoke.
- Pack howitzer and M8 Scott basic barrage distance scatter decreased slightly.

### British Forces

- Removed the random debris that resided under the British HQ.
- Boys AT rifle now uses Boys AT rifle graphics.
  - Due to a Relic bug, the magazine floats below the weapon.
- 4.2-inch mortar default barrage cost increased from 25 munitions to 30 munitions.
- Added explosive effects to 2-inch mortar smoke.
- Churchill tank line population space requirement decreased.
  - Churchill Mk VII population space requirement decreased from 30 to 22.
  - Churchill Mk VII Crocodile population space requirement decreased from 30 to 26.
  - Churchill Mk IV AVRE population space requirement decreased from 30 to 24.
  - Churchill Mk IV population space requirement decreased from 28 to 20.
- Churchill Mk IV AVRE has been adjusted.
  - Armour decreased from 1520 to 1020.
  - Cost decreased from 660 manpower, 150 munitions, and 260 fuel to 560 manpower, 150 munitions, and 180 fuel.
- Hotkey for Forward Assembly changed from F (colliding with Fuel Cache) to A.
- 6-pounder gun (tank guns and anti-tank guns) damage decreased from 190-315 to 185-275. Penetration increased from 240/340/440 to 240/350/480.
- 75mm OQF gun damage decreased from 225-375 to 200-330. Penetration decreased from 220/350/480 to 220/340/460.
- 77mm HV gun penetration changed from 500/750/1000 to 550/950/1450.
- Tulip rocket damage range tightened from 330-520 to 390-420.
- All APDS rounds have been adjusted to have increased penetration from +20%/30%/40% to +50%/55%/60% at far, medium, and close ranges (accounting for rounding), but damage has been reduced from -25% damage to -35% damage.
  - The resulting penetration values for far, medium, and close range shots are as follows for each gun:
    - 6-pounder guns normally have penetration values of 240/350/480; APDS changes these values to 360/540/770.
    - 75mm OQF guns normally have penetration values of 220/340/460; APDS changes these values to 330/530/740.
    - 17-pounder guns normally have penetration values of 575/1035/1610; APDS changes these values to 860/1600/2580.
    - 77mm HV guns normally have penetration values of 550/950/1450; APDS changes these values to 825/1470/2320.
- Comet I tanks now have access to toggle APDS.

### Soviet Union

- Shock doctrinal infantry with body armour have had their armour value increased from 1.5 to 2.
- ZiS-3 field gun barrages price increased from 25 munitions to 35 munitions.
- ZiS-3 field gun barrrage scatter increased to match SU-76 barrage scatter.
- SU-76 barrage price increased from 20 munitions to 25 munitions.
- SU-76 barrage range increased from 120 to 150 (matches ZiS-3 barrage range).
- SU-76 population space requirement decreased from 9 to 6.
- HM-38 120mm mortar incendiary rounds ability cost increased from 35 munitions to 45 munitions.
- HM-38 120mm mortar incendiary rounds ability cooldown increased from 90 seconds to 120 seconds.
- ZiS-2 57mm anti-tank gun damage increased from 165-275 to 210-290.

### Axis (Common)

- Concrete bunkers now cost less population space.
  - Regular bunkers cost 3 population space.
  - Command bunkers cost 6 population space.
  - Mortar bunkers cost 18 population space.
  - Pantherturms cost 16 population space.
- 8.1 cm GrW 34 incendiary rounds ability cooldown increased from 90 seconds to 120 seconds.
- 10.5 cm howitzer incendiary rounds ability cost decreased from 50 munitions to 45 munitions.

### Wehrmacht

- Hotkey for Leichte Panzer IV Ausf. G changed from V (colliding with Panzer IV Ausf. H) to G.
- Straf Sturmpionere building repair swapped for smoke grenades and Haftholladung anti-tank weapon swapped for regular repair.
- Straf Kettenhunde now serve a more long-range support role.
  - They come equipped with 4x K98 and 1x MP 40, downgraded from 4x MP 40 and 1x StG 44.
  - They can now construct basic defences.
  - They come with Splitterring grenades, Haftholladung anti-tank weapons, Nebelhandgranate 39 smoke grenades, and the ability to stop retreating units.
  - They can purchase MG42s and 2x StG 44s as upgrades, with enough slots for one of these upgrades.

### Waffen-SS

- Sturmtiger cost increased from 740 manpower and 190 fuel to 740 manpower, 200 munitions, and 190 fuel.
- Sturmtigers now take an additional 8 seconds to complete their aiming sequence and drop red smoke at the target before the gun fires.
