# v1.1.0.3

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- [#261 - 17 pounder emplacement gun gets destroyed and becomes unrepairable inside the emplacement itself.](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/261)
- [#293 - [BUG] SS Prop 'Fur Das Vaterland' stacks with sprint on Strumgrenadiere and Volkssturm](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/293)

## Balance Changes

### British Forces

- Attempted to fix the 17 pounder by disallowing the gun from being destroyed independently of the emplacement.
- Guards Hammer rifle section passive has been changed from -5% cooldown to a 95% cooldown multiplier.
- Guards Anvil rifle section passive has been nerfed.
  - Previously, it granted rifle sections an additional 5% accuracy and 10% reduced received accuracy while in cover, effectively making them experienced quality infantry at regular prices.
  - Now, it only grants rifle sections grants a 90% received accuracy multiplier and 15% increased received accuracy while not in cover.
- Armoured Anvil rifle section passive has been changed from +25% construction rate to a 125% construction rate multiplier.

### Axis (Common)

- 7.5 cm Pak 40 penetration value has been buffed slightly to reflect that anti-tank versions of the 7.5 cm gun had marginally better penetration than vehicle versions of the 7.5 cm gun.
- Geballte Ladung bundle grenades have been adjusted.
  - At all ranges, accuracy has been increased from 1.0 near, 0.75 mid, and 0.5 far to 1.8 near, 1.8 mid, and 1.8 far, greatly reducing the chance that the grenade effect can be dodged.
  - Area of effect penetration tightened from 480 near, 240 mid, and 15 far to 800 near, 30 mid, and 15 far.
  - Damage radius decreased from 15 to 12.
    - Apparent damage radius from ability cursor increased from 9 to 12.
  - Damage adjusted from 2.0 near, 0.5 mid, and 0.35 far to 2.0 near, 0.35 mid, and 0.2 far, making the grenade damage but have varying effectiveness at infantry at mid range and unable to kill infantry beyond the mid radius.
  - Damage ranges tightened from 1.5 near, 3.0 mid, and 4.0 far to 1.0 near, 1.75 mid, and 3.0 far.
  - Penetration increased from 480 to 800, guaranteeing penetration against most early medium tanks.
  - Detrack criticals can only occur on vehicles damaged to at most 75% health.

### Waffen-SS

- T4 upgrade that grants suppression-breaking sprint has been nerfed; using this sprint now grants 95% reduced suppression instead of 100% and also increases received accuracy by 10% instead of reducing received accuracy by 20% (effectively increasing received accuracy by 30%).
