# v1.1.1.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- 155mm gun M1, BL 5.5-inch medium gun, and 15 cm schwere Feldhaubitze 18 now properly cause -15% munitions income drain.
- American T2 officer abilities are working again.
- American M1 Garand Requisition global upgrade visibility fixed.
- Immobilization precursor critical can be repaired.
- ISU-122S was firing ISU-52 152mm high explosive rounds; rounds are now regular projectiles.
- [#117 - The hotkey for .30 cal HMG (both variants) armour piercing rounds is the same as the one to leave a building](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/117)
  - Hotkey changed from D to Z.
- Inconsistencies with SS Mechanized MG42 Bunker corrected: too much sight/detection, munitions cost, fog of war visibility.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Machine guns can no longer attack ground.
  - This change is either temporary (a projectile-based attack ground is possible) or permanent (no projectile-based attack ground can be implemented).
- AT Guns can no longer use HE abilities against infantry.
- All team weapons are now much more survivable.
  - All team weapons have at least double HP, with mortars and machine guns having almost triple HP.
  - All team weapons are now 5 times as difficult to hit.
  - This survivability effect applies only to the model itself, not to the crew.
- 75mm (or equivalent) Tank HE shot universally nerfed, though effects on infantry are minimal.
  - Damage cone tightened slightly.

### United States Forces

- M10 Tank Destroyer main gun range increased from 75 to 85 (outranges most tanks at equal veterancy level).
- M36 Tank Destroyer main gun range increased from 75 to 85 (outranges most tanks at equal veterancy level).
- Recon Team sniper rifle replaced with an M3 submachine gun.
  - Squad cost decreased from 240 manpower to 120 manpower, and reinforcement cost decreased from 60 manpower to 24 manpower.
- T34 Calliope M8 rockets adjusted.
  - Barrage ability cost increased from 80 munitions to 150 munitions and cooldown time increased from 270 seconds to 300 seconds.
    - Half barrage ability cost increased from 40 munitions to 90 munitions.
  - Explosive profile increased to match projectile damage radius.
  - Scatter increased by >100%.
  - Damage cone tightened.
  - Penetration and damage vs vehicles reduced by 50%.

### British Forces

- Artillery Stickleback artillery sector barrage removed.
- Achilles Tank Destroyer (British version of M10 Tank Destroyer) main gun range increased from 75 to 85 (outranges most tanks at equal veterancy level).
- 25pdr SP, tracked, Sexton II self-propelled howitzer has been nerfed again.
  - Half barrage cost increased from 20 munitions to 40 munitions.
  - Creeping barrage cost increased from 50 munitions to 60 munitions.
- Recce Team sniper rifle replaced with a Sten submachine gun.
  - Squad cost decreased from 300 manpower to 150 manpower, and reinforcement cost decreased from 75 manpower to 30 manpower.
- AEC Mk III no longer has access to toggle HE, and must fire HE individually.
- Land Mattress RP-3 rockets adjusted.
  - Barrage ability cost increased from 80 munitions to 180 munitions and cooldown time increased from 240 seconds to 360 seconds.
    - Half barrage ability cost increased from 40 munitions to 120 munitions.
    - Smoke barrage ability cost decreased from 80 munitions to 30 munitions.
  - Explosive profile increased to match projectile damage radius.
  - Scatter increased by 33%.
  - Damage cone tightened.
  - Penetration and damage vs vehicles reduced by 50%.

### Soviet Union

- Maxim Heavy Machine Gun and Goryunov Heavy Machine Guns have both had their setup times increased.
  - Maxim setup time increased from 1.5 seconds to 2.6 seconds.
  - Goryunov setup time increased from 2 seconds to 2.7 seconds.
- Rekognostsirovky (recon team) sniper rifle replaced with a PPSh-41 stick magazine.
  - Squad cost decreased from 240 manpower to 120 manpower, and reinforcement cost decreased from 60 manpower to 24 manpower.
- BM-13 Katyusha M-13 rockets adjusted.
  - Penetration and damage vs vehicles reduced by 50%.

### Axis (Common)

- Panzerwerfer 15 cm Wurfgranate 41 Spreng rockets adjusted.
  - Barrage ability cost decreased from 75 munitions to 50 munitions.
    - Half barrage ability cost kept at 35 munitions.
  - Scatter increased.
  - Damage cone tightened.
  - Penetration decreased by 50%.
    - Additionally, penetration and damage vs vehicles reduced by 50%.
- Concrete bunkers now cost population space and incur upkeep costs.
  - Regular bunkers cost 6 population space.
  - Command bunkers cost 12 population space.
  - Mortar bunkers cost 24 population space.
  - Pantherturms cost 20 population space.
- Concrete bunkers can now be decrewed when reduced below 60% health.
- Concrete bunker target size increased, making them easier to hit.

### Wehrmacht

- Infanterie Rapid Response Artillery has been removed.
- SS Panzer Tiger II main gun range decreased from 85 to 75 (same as other tanks).
- Aufklärer (recon team) sniper rifle replaced with an G43.
  - Squad cost decreased from 270 manpower to 150 manpower, and reinforcement cost decreased from 75 manpower to 30 manpower.
- Infanterie 352. Infanterie-Division Stoßtruppen hotkey changed from G (colliding with Grenadier) to V.
- Infanterie free veterancy is now locked behind Kampfkraftzentrum construction.

### Waffen-SS

- Mechanised Rapid Response Artillery has been removed.
- Panzer Rapid Response Artillery has been removed.
- Sturm Sturmtiger reload cost increased from 150 munitions to 200 munitions per shot.
- SS-Aufklärer (recon team) sniper rifle replaced with an MP34.
  - Squad cost decreased from 270 manpower to 150 manpower, and reinforcement cost decreased from 75 manpower to 30 manpower.
- SS-Aufklärer can only camouflage when in cover.
- Stuka zu Fuß 28 cm Nebelwerfer 41 rockets adjusted.
  - Scatter increased by 50%.
  - Cooldown decreased from 240 seconds to 180 seconds.
  - Raw AoE penetration decreased by 50%.
  - Damage cone tightened.
    - Damage range narrowed; lower bound now is at the threshold for destroying all medium tanks in one shot, higher bound decreased.
  - Penetration and damage vs vehicles reduced by 50%.
