# v1.1.0.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- [#45 - Tank recrew for Luchs Commander](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/45)
- [#66 - T1 Luchs officer doesn't capture](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/66)
- [#112 - UKF Tank last battlegroup available without tank HQ](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/112)
- [#120 - SS-Panzerjäger Sturmgrenadiere not having Faust by default](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/120)
- [#185 - UKF guards still get 6 men squads right from the start](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/185)
- [#237 - Recrewing Firefly as enemy team causes a Bugsplat](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/237)
- [#245 - Ostruppen Trench Mag K98 overrides the SVT upgrade](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/245)
- [#269 - SS Panzerjagers cannot upgrade with panzershreck](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/269)
- [#270 - Certain Officer Sprint abilties do not function](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/270)
- [#273 - SS Propaganda BG officer works like before officer rework.](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/273)
- [#282 - UKF R.A.R KOYLI UC Call in costs only 10 Manpower more than the infantry squad itself.](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/282) cost increased from 330 manpower to 440 manpower.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Upgrades that grant global upgrades, such as "Global BARs" or "Global Panzerfausts", no longer cost the resources that would be saved. Requiring the same resources means that determining whether to purchase an upgrade became a simple equation of how many squads with the upgrade would need to receive the upgrade in order for the global upgrade to be worth it.
  - For example, the global rifle smoke grenade upgrade for USF, which costs 30 munitions, is almost mathematically pointless to get as it implies that the user would be spending munitions to purchase individual rifle smoke grenades for at minimum 6 rifleman squads to break even since the individual upgrade costs 5 munitions. At the 7th rifleman squad, purchasing the global rifle smoke grenade upgrade is now cheaper than individually purchasing the upgrade.
  - Similarly, the Rapid Mobilization upgrade of Wehrmacht, which costs 150 manpower and 20 fuel, is also difficult to justify ever purchasing due to the high initial investment cost. A Wehrmacht player would need to either buy 7.5 Volksgrenadier, Grenadier, or Pioneer squads after obtaining this upgrade or reinforce 75 models for this upgrade to merely break even. Since the upgrade can be found on the T3 building, this means that the game has progressed to Battle Phase 3, further reducing the likelihood that the Wehrmacht player will be spending that much manpower on infantry.
- Officer capture speed standardised to 50% capture rate and 50% reversion rate (most officers already had 50% for both).
  
### United States Forces

- T2 and T3 unlocks, namely the Captain and Major respectively, now require the previous tier; tiers cannot be skipped.
  - T2 unlock time requirement increased from 180 to 240 and cost increased from 200 manpower and 100 fuel to 200 manpower and 120 fuel.
  - T3 unlock time requirement increased from 210 to 240 and cost decreased from 240 manpower and 140 fuel to 200 manpower and 140 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Military Industrial Complex, which lowers cooldown of infantry abilities by 50%, has had its cost reduced from 150 manpower and 20 fuel to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Pack-a-Punch!, which gives anti-tank teams M9 Bazookas that fire M6A3 rounds, has had its cost changed from 120 munitions (2 individual upgrades) to 100 manpower and 20 fuel.
  - Also removed erroneous extra modifiers that made it a duplicate of the Military Industrial Complex upgrade.
- T1 upgrade Can Opener, which gives riflemen the Composition-B anti-tank ability, has had its cost changed from 35 munitions (3.5 individual upgrades) to 30 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T1 upgrade M1918A2 BAR Requisition, which gives riflemen the BAR upgrade, has had its cost changed from 120 munitions (2.6667 individual upgrades) to 250 manpower and 40 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Penicillin, which allows healing for most American non-doctrinal units, has had its cost reduced from 250 manpower and 30 fuel to 200 manpower and 20 fuel.
- T2 upgrade High Speed, Low Drag, which gives M20 scout cars and M8 Greyhounds side skirts, has had its cost changed from 50 munitions (2 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 5 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Smoke & Mirrors, which gives riflemen the rifle smoke grenade launcher upgrade, has had its cost changed from 30 munitions (6 individual upgrades) to 25 manpower and 5 fuel.

### British Forces

- Forward Assembly upgrade PIAT Requisition, which gives various squads the PIAT upgrade, has had its cost changed from 45 munitions (1.8 individual upgrades) to 80 manpower and 10 fuel.
- Forward Assembly upgrade No. 36M Rifle Grenade Requisition, which gives rifle sections the rifle grenade upgrade, has had its cost changed from 30 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- Forward Assembly upgrade No. 73 Anti-Tank Training, which gives rifle sections the upgraded anti-tank grenade upgrade, has had its cost changed from 35 munitions (3.5 individual upgrades) to 75 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Unconditional Aid, which decreases light vehicle build time by 50%, has had its cost reduced from 100 manpower and 20 fuel to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Steady Driving, which decreases light vehicle received suppression by 50%, has had its cost reduced from 100 manpower and 20 fuel to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Wireless Set No. 19 Radio Requisition, which gives all applicable tanks the radio upgrade, has had its cost changed from 60 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 100 manpower and 30 fuel.

### Soviet Union

- T3 and T4 buildings now require both T1 and T2 to build; neither building can be skipped to build the later tier buildings.
- T1 upgrade RGD-33 Requisition, which gives regular squads (frontoviki) the upgraded fragmentation grenade upgrade, has had its cost changed from 20 munitions (4 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 5 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Ruchnaya Granata 42 Mass Production, which gives conscript squads (prizyvniki) the fragmentation grenade upgrade, has had its cost changed from 25 munitions (5 individual upgrades) to 30 manpower and 5 fuel.
  - The regular RG-42 upgrade is unavailable on conscript squads.
  - Obtaining this upgrade locks out the RGD-33 grenade assault upgrade.
- T1 upgrade RGD-33 Assault Training, which gives conscript squads (prizyvniki) the upgraded fragmentation grenade assault upgrade, has had its cost changed from 40 munitions (4 individual upgrades) to 60 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T2 upgrade RPG-6 Mass Production, which gives regular squads (frontoviki) and conscript squads (prizyvniki) the upgraded anti-tank grenade upgrade, has had its cost changed from 45 munitions (9 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 15 fuel.
  - The regular RPG-6 upgrade is unavailable on conscript squads.
- T3 upgrade SU-85M Mass Production, which gives SU-85s the SU-85M upgrade, has had its cost changed from 80 fuel (4 individual upgrades without manpower costs) to 120 munitions.
- T3 upgrade 9-RS Radio Mass Production, which gives all T-34s the radio upgrade, has had its cost changed from 60 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 100 manpower and 30 fuel.
  - Currently, the regular upgrade is unavailable, meaning there is no trade-off here, but the change was made for consistency.
- T3 upgrade Steel Rain, which gives all applicable vehicles the fragmentation round upgrade, has had its cost changed from 120 munitions (varies, but 4.8 individual T-34 upgrades as a standard) to 150 manpower and 25 fuel.
- T4 upgrade KV-1E, which gives KV-1 tanks more armour, has had its cost changed from 90 fuel (3 individual upgrades without manpower costs) to 150 munitions.
- T3 upgrade Stakhanovskoye dvizheniye, which decreases build times for T3 tanks by 33%, has had its cost decreased from 200 manpower and 35 fuel to 75 manpower and 15 fuel.

### Wehrmacht

- T1 upgrade Panzerfäuste-100 Requisition, which gives all applicable infantry squads the Panzerfaust-100 upgrade, has had its cost changed from 60 munitions (4 individual upgrades) to 75 manpower and 15 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Gewehrnebelgranate 42 Requisition, which gives grenadier squads the rifle smoke grenade launcher upgrade, has had its cost changed from 30 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 5 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Model 24 Assault Training, which gives applicable squads the grenade assault upgrade, has had its cost changed from 30 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 5 fuel.
- T1 upgrade Field Infirmary, which gives a healing aura to the structure, has had its cost changed changed from 45 munitions to 25 manpower and 15 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Maschinengewehr 42 Requisition, which gives grenadier squads the MG42 upgrade, has had its cost changed from 180 munitions (2.77 individual upgrades) to 200 manpower and 50 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Veteran Sergeants, which gives volksgrenadier squads +25% veterancy gain, has had its cost reduced from 100 manpower and 25 fuel to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Panzerspähwagen, which gives 221 scout cars the 2 cm KwK 30 upgrade, has had its cost changed from 60 munitions (2.4 individual upgrades) to 40 manpower and 15 fuel.
- T3 upgrade Periston, which allows healing for most Wehrmacht non-doctrinal units, has been renamed to "Blood Banks" and had its cost reduced from 250 manpower and 30 fuel to 180 manpower and 15 fuel.
- T3 upgrade Rapid Mobilization, which decreases the price of some Wehrmacht infantry, has had its cost changed from 150 manpower and 20 fuel to 120 munitions and 30 fuel.
- T3 upgrade Panzer Tactician, which provides applicable tanks with the smoke discharger upgrade, has had its cost changed from 90 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 150 manpower and 25 fuel.
- T3 upgrade Die Wacht am Rhein!, which gives infantry 100% increased strategic point capture speed, has had its cost reduced from 150 manpower and 20 fuel to 75 manpower and 15 fuel.
- T4 upgrade Veteran Crews, which gives Panzer IVs and StuG IIIs +25% veterancy gain, has had its cost reduced from 150 manpower and 35 fuel to 75 manpower and 15 fuel.

### Waffen-SS

- sWS Halftrack cost decreased from 280 manpower and 35 fuel to 150 manpower and 25 fuel.
- SS-Sturmgrenadiere now have 25% faster territory capture rate.
- SS-Panzerjäger can now upgrade to the Panzerschreck for 300 manpower, bringing the unit cost up to the original cost of the Panzerjäger team.
- SS-Aufklärer hotkey changed from U (too far to the right on most keyboards) to X (unused hotkey on left on most keyboards).
- Jäger SS-Fallschirmjäger-Bataillon 600 Aufklärer hotkey changed from F (colliding with sWS Supply Halftrack) to G (usually for "grenadier", but the hotkey is guaranteed not to collide).
- Jäger SS-Fallschirmjäger-Bataillon 600 Pioniere hotkey changed from E (colliding with SS-Sturmpionere) to C (grid position).
- T1 upgrade Panzerfäuste-100 Requisition, which gives all applicable infantry squads the Panzerfaust-100 upgrade, has had its cost changed from 60 munitions (4 individual upgrades) to 75 manpower and 15 fuel.
  - Same as Wehrmacht.
- T1 upgrade 3 cm Gewehr-Sprenggranate Requisition, which gives all SS-Sturmgrenadiere squads the rifle grenade ability, has had its cost changed from 30 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 50 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Volksdeutsche, which decreases infantry build times by 50%, has had its cost reduced from 150 manpower and 20 fuel to 60 manpower and 10 fuel.
- T2 upgrade Erbsenmuster, which allows infantry to camouflage at Veterancy 1, has had its cost changed from 90 munitions (3 individual upgrades) to 100 manpower and 25 fuel.
- T3 upgrade Spaced Armour, which gives applicable tanks the side skirts upgrade, has had its cost changed from 120 munitions (2.4 individual upgrades) to 180 manpower and 35 fuel.
