# v1.1.5.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Soviets could continually build their base buildings to receive discounts on conscripts.
- A number of Ardennes buildings (such as churches) can now be converted into Forward Headquarters.
- Foot-mobile 17-pounder anti-tank gun was targeting infantry even with prioritise vehicles enabled.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Open-top halftracks now only heal units after they have been out of combat for at least 5 seconds.
- Open-top garrison vehicles now universally have 50% moving accuracy debuffs applied to garrisoned members as long as the vehicles are moving.
- Officer air strike timer change reverted to original behaviour but with extra text to indicate their actual call-in timers.
- Some ambient sandbags have had their statistics changed to match buildable sandbag statistics.
- 12.7mm machine guns (.50 M2HB, DShK) have had their costs increased from 290 manpower and 30 munitions to 320 manpower and 45 munitions and have also had some balance adjustments.
  - They now have half accuracy against infantry units but gain vastly increased damage output against sandbags.
  - They deal about 25% more suppression in general and deal almost normal suppression to units in cover.
  - Firing cone of the .50 M2HB has been reduced from 45 degrees in either direction to 30 degrees in either direction, while the firing cone of the DShK has been reduced from 30 degrees in either direction to 25 degrees in either direction.
  - These changes overall make the 12.7mm machine guns more of an offensive weapon than a defensive one.
- More trees are now fully destructible, making them both passable and shootable when destroyed.
- Pinned anti-tank guns are no longer immobile but instead move at a very slow pace.
- Team weapon debuffs from suppression now correctly apply to pinned team weapons.
  - Previously, the debuffs from suppression would disappear and get replaced with different debuffs from pinning.
- All jeeps and jeep-like vehicles (e.g. Kubelwagens, GAZ cars) have been adjusted.
  - They can now capture territory.
  - All costs have been normalised around the cost of a regular-skill squad for the faction of origin, and standard machine gun munitions price.
    - Fuel costs have been removed, as they were relatively insignificant.
  - Universal carriers are affected only by the manpower change and cannot capture territory.
  - Unarmed jeeps and vehicles are unaffected by the cost changes but can capture territory albeit slower.

### United States Forces

- M1919A4 .30 calibre machine guns have been unified with many statistics cloned from the MG34, such as accuracy (effectively a reduction from 0.25/0.5/0.55 for far/mid/near to 0.16/0.4/0.45), cooldown, and some other minor elements.
- M2HB .50 calibre machine guns are now non-doctrinal.
- Sherman smoke mortar range decreased by 50% from 120 to 60.
- Repair stations no longer work on units that are currently in combat.

### British Forces

- Valentine smoke mortar range decreased by 50% from 120 to 60.
- For increased usability, the maximum squad size of the foot-mobile 17-pounder anti-tank gun has been increased from 5 to 6 for non-Soviet factions, and from 6 to 7 for the Soviets.

### Soviet Union

- SG-43 Goryunov heavy machine gun burst time decreased by around 10%.
- Motorised GAZ DShK jeep price is no longer affected by the doctrinal light vehicle discount.
  - CP cost also increased from 0 CP to 1 CP.
- T-34 armour has been generally increased.
  - T-34 armour increased from 650 to 850.
  - T-34-85 armour increased from 850 to 900.
- T-60 and T-70 now have standard light tank health points, increasing their HP from 240 to 320.
- SU-85 armour increased from 650 to 700.
- SU-85M armour increased from 910 to 1150.
- SU-100 armour increased from 910 to 1150.

### Axis (Common)

- StuG III Ausf. F/8s now appropriately use the 7,5 cm StuK 40 L/48 instead of the 7,5 cm StuK 40 L/43 guns.
  - Due to their toggle HE nature, the standard price for a StuG III Ausf. F/8 has increased from 360 manpower, 35 munitions, and 80 fuel to 400 manpower, 35 munitions, and 85 fuel.
  - Armour decreased from 820 to 750.

### Wehrmacht

- Panzer IV Ausf. G cost increased from 360 manpower, 35 munitions, and 90 fuel to 400 manpower, 35 munitions, and 90 fuel.

### Waffen-SS

- StuG III Ausf. F/8 price is no longer discounted for Panzerjäger Doctrine.
