# v1.1.1.4 Version "Mthis"

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Abandoned vehicles now have their engines destroyed on abandon again.
- Retreating team weapon crews can no longer be prevented from retreating.
- [#77 - Sturmtiger's NahVW not firing](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/77)
- [#228 - You can heal from tier one SS before the building animation is complete](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/228)
- [#242 - Wehrmacht Pioneers can have two Flamethrowers](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/242)
- Tracking angle bug on American smoke mortars fixed.
- Most officer barrages now correctly have sound cues.
- Tanks may no longer use the ability Hold Facing and also research any upgrades that would add an ability that would replace the Hold Facing ability.
- [#223 - No NaHw on German Armor when playing Leichte](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/223)
  - NahVW launchers are no longer available for Leichte tanks.
- [#129 - HEAT rounds can fire through walls, buildings](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/129)
  - This fix addresses all HEAT rounds; all HEAT abilities require direct line of sight to use.
- [#332 - [BUG] UKF Recce Team cannot Capture Points](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/332)
  - The Sten SMG icon is also removed.
- M26 Pershing high-explosive shot was not synchronising with the firing animation.
- [#200 - "Erbsenmuster" T2 global upgrade doesn't affect 30th Waffen Grenadiers](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/200)
- Units no longer phase in and out of camouflaged state during combat.
  - This fix should apply to infantry, anti-tank guns, machine guns, and vehicles.
- Leichtes Infanteriegeschütz 18 hollow charge round always missing has been addressed.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Heavy calibre guns now deal deflection damage and have had their damage ranges tightened (less variance in damage output). Generally, smaller calibre (e.g. 50mm, 75mm) will deal less of their damage when deflected.
  - American 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - American 76mm armour-piercing rounds deal 4% deflection damage.
  - American 90mm armour-piercing rounds deal 8% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 385-635 to 520-550, guaranteeing one-shots of medium tanks.
  - Axis low-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - Axis medium-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 4% deflection damage.
  - Axis high-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 6% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 225-375 to 320-350.
  - Axis 88mm armour-piercing rounds deal 8% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 415-690 to 500-530, guaranteeing one-shots of medium tanks.
  - Axis 128mm armour-piercing rounds deal 20% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 570-950 to 750-780, guaranteeing one-shots of heavy medium tanks.
  - British OQF 75mm rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - British 17-pounder rounds deal 6% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 300-500 to 400-430.
  - Soviet low-velocity 76mm armour-piercing rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - **Soviet 85mm armour-piercing rounds deal 8% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 385-585 to 530-560, guaranteeing one-shots of medium tanks.**
    - This change may result in adjustments for T-34-85 tanks if this damage improvement proves too overpowered.
  - Soviet 100mm armour-piercing rounds deal 12% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 450-750 to 650-680, guaranteeing one-shots of heavy medium tanks.
  - Soviet 152mm armour-piercing rounds deal 15% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 635-1060 to 850-880, guaranteeing one-shots of some heavy tanks.
  - Soviet 122mm armour-piercing rounds deal 16% deflection damage. Damage range tightened from 555-925 to 720-750, guaranteeing one-shots of heavy medium tanks.
- Immobilisation criticals can only be rolled when a tank is at or below 50% HP.
- Units getting burnt by incendiary weapons no longer halt in the fire.
- 155mm and equivalent barrages cost decreased from 150 munitions to 120 munitions.
  - Creeping barrages cost decreased from 200 munitions to 160 munitions.
  - Blast radius increased slightly from 3-4-7 to 4-5-8.
  - Munitions drain removed.
- When a vehicle has an ammunition cookoff death (i.e. the "brew up" death), the main gun is no longer able to fire.
- Ammo rack can now only occur if a target vehicle is at or below 20% health after a penetrating shot, reduced from 30% health.
- Removed free veterancy from all British and Soviet units.
- All high-explosive rounds ability ranges standardised at 60.
  - Some abilities had higher ranges than others for some reason, such as Panther HE and IS-2 HE.
- All toggle high-explosive rounds range reduced from 75 (standard tank gun range) to 60 (standard HE ability range).
  - The only exceptions to this rule include tanks that fire HE rounds as their primary weapon, such as Sturmpanzers and SU-152s.
- Flares can no longer detect camouflaged units, but they still grant line of sight.
- Rocket artillery damage radius slightly increased per rocket.
  - Suppression increased per rocket.
  - Infantry are now stunned if hit by rocket artillery.
- Building repair crews no longer repair targets if the target is in combat.
- 75mm artillery and equivalents have been nerfed again (USF pack howitzer, M8 Scott, OB-25, ZiS-3, leIG) to match closest equivalents.
  - USF pack howitzers and M8 Scott now match M1 81mm mortars.
  - OB-25, ZiS-3, SU-76, etc. now match T-34 76mm HE shots.
  - leIG now match Panzer IV HE shots.
- 105mm artillery and 120mm mortars have had their damage radii tightened significantly.
  - In addition, all deflection immobilisations have been removed from all artillery abilities and vehicles.
    - Most autocannons can no longer cause immobilisation criticals on deflection.
- Land mine accuracy increased.
- All "Mark Vehicle" and vehicle-directed "Mark Target" abilities have been unified in effect and cost, though not necessarily in description.
  - Mark Vehicle/Target no longer grants increased damage against the target vehicle; instead, it grants increased accuracy and penetration against the target vehicle. All Mark Vehicle/Target grant the same effects.
  - All Mark Vehicle/Target abilities cost either 30 munitions or 40 munitions depending on whether the ability only grants a slight debuff to the target vehicle or if it also sends a plane for reconnaisance, respectively.

### United States Forces

- **Reload rate of 76mm tank guns has been reduced.**
  - Anti-tank guns are unaffected.
  - For reference, the reload time of regular M3 75mm Sherman guns has been unchanged at 5.6-6s.
  - Regular M1 76mm Sherman gun reload time increased from 4.1-4.5s to 4.9-5.4s.
  - E8 76mm Sherman gun reload time increased from 3.5-3.8s to 4.2-4.6s.
- Tank Destroyer 28th ID Riflemen experience level changed from Poor to Experienced.
  - Squad leader weapon changed from an M1A1 Thompson submachine gun to an Winchester Model 1912 shotgun.
  - M1A1 Bazooka upgrade replaced with a 2x Winchester Model 1912 shotgun upgrade.
- 2nd French Airborne will now show on the minimap.
- 1st Special Service will now show on the minimap.
- Rear echelon are now equipped with an M3 grease gun and M1 carbines again, but by default, come equipped with a slow variant of M1 carbine.
  - The M1 Garand Ammunition Requisition upgrade has been renamed to Small Arms Ammunition Requisition and now affects rear echelon infantry as well, and replaces their slow M1 carbine with a regular M1 carbine.
  - The slow M1 carbine is particularly punishing, and is largely useless at all ranges except close quarters.
    - During testing, at mid range without cover, 4 rear echelon squads (180 \* 4 = 720 manpower) barely were able to match 3 grenadier squads (240 \* 3 = 720 manpower).
- Tank fuel drop ability re-added.
- 76mm cannons fire rate reduced (fastest is marginally faster than regular 75mm).
- M2 60mm mortar barrage duration increased to 9 rounds and fire rate increased to maximum possible given the animation speed.
  - For reference, for every 2 shots fired by an M1 81mm mortar, an M2 60mm mortar can fire 3 shots.
- White phosphorus rounds fired from Shermans have had their range decreased from 75 (standard tank gun range, actually 80 in game files) to 60 (standard HE ability range).
- M36 Jackson tank destroyer cost increased from 460 manpower and 125 fuel to 460 manpower and 175 fuel.

### British Forces

- **Reload rate of 6 pounder and 75mm tank guns has been reduced.**
  - Anti-tank guns are unaffected.
  - 6 pounder gun reload time increased from 3.5-4.5s to 4.7-5.2s.
  - 75mm gun reload time increased from 3.5-4.5s to 5.6-6s, matching the reload time of regular M3 75mm Sherman guns.
- Airborne hotbar ability Hold the Line removed.
- Guards hotbar ability Hold the Line removed.
- 101st Special Air Service will now show on the minimap.
- White phosphorus rounds removed from all tanks and indirect fire platforms.
- Churchill tank line has been nerfed.
  - Tank HP decreased from 850 to 650.
  - Churchill Mk VII toggle HE changed for single-shot high-explosive shot.
  - Churchill Mk IV armour decreased from 1520 to 1020.
    - To compensate, the cost of the Churchill Mk IV has been decreased from 460 manpower and 160 fuel to 460 manpower and 120 fuel.
  - Churchill Mk VII population space requirement increased from 24 to 30.
  - Churchill Mk IV population space requirement increased from 22 to 28.
  - Free veterancy removed.
- Command Valentine tank CP requirement increased from 2 CP to 4 CP.
- Cromwell IV tank cost decreased from 380 manpower and 90 fuel to 360 manpower and 70 fuel.
- Cromwell V tank cost decreased from 420 manpower and 120 fuel to 400 manpower and 100 fuel.
- Comet I tank has been adjusted.
  - Limit of 2 tanks has been removed.
  - Build time decreased from 90 seconds to 65 seconds.
  - Cost adjusted from 460 manpower and 125 fuel to 420 manpower and 125 fuel.
  - Population space requirement decreased from 22 to 15.
  - Frontal armour increased to 950 and rear armour increased to 515 from 800 and 450, respectively; for comparison, the Cromwell V has 1000 frontal armour and 515 rear armour.
  - Health decreased from 650 to 480, matching the health of regular medium tanks.
  - Target size decreased from 22 to 17, matching that of the Cromwell V.
  - Speed and acceleration are now both worse than before.
- Sherman Firefly cost has been decreased from 420 manpower and 120 fuel to 400 manpower and 115 fuel.
  - Cheaper hammer variant cost has been decreased from 400 manpower and 95 fuel to 390 manpower and 95 fuel.

### Soviet Union

- Soviet Rifle hotbar ability Manpower Blitz removed.
- Soviet Artillery hotbar ability Scorched Earth Policy removed.
- ZiS-3 anti-tank guns cost increased from 290 manpower to 290 manpower and 10 munitions.
- Shock T0 Fireteam CP requirement increased from 1 CP to 2 CP.
- T-60 CP requirement increased from 3 CP to 4 CP.
- RPD bursting time decreased from 2-2.5s to 1-1.5s.
  - By comparison, the closest equivalent weapon, the BAR, has a bursting time of 0.5-1s.
- ODON combat and sapper squads will now show on the minimap.
- Valentine White Phosphorus upgrade removed.
- M4A2(76)W Sherman cost increased from 310 manpower and 85 fuel to 380 manpower and 90 fuel.
- Soviet Slot 2 Smoke Grenade (RGD-1) hotkey changed V to C to avoid colliding with Slot 3 abilities.
- SU-76, with its toggle HE range and effect nerfed, has been repurposed.
  - It has lost access to APCR rounds.
  - By default, it now has access to cheap artillery barrages (20 munitions, 60 second cooldown).
  - Cost changed from 320 manpower, 35 munitions, and 50 fuel to 290 manpower, 40 munitions, and 40 fuel.
    - Cheaper Soviet Tank variant cost changed from 290 manpower, 35 munitions, and 40 fuel to 260 manpower, 40 munitions, and 35 fuel.
- HM-38 120mm mortar default barrage cost increased from 20 munitions to 30 munitions.

### Axis (Common)

- StuG III Ausf. G tanks have been altered in their role.
  - Cost compared to regular Panzer IVs has been reduced.
    - Regular SS StuG III Ausf. G cost decreased from 380 manpoweer and 85 fuel to 380 manpower and 70 fuel.
    - Regular Wehrmacht StuG III Ausf. G cost decreased from 380 manpower and 85 fuel to 380 manpower and 70 fuel.
    - SS Mechanisierte StuG III Ausf. G cost decreased from 340 manpower and 65 fuel to 320 manpower and 55 fuel.
  - Smoke and grenade dischargers are no longer accessible and cannot be researched.
  - Camouflage is available for free.
  - Firing Positions! is now available as an upgrade.
  - Soviet StuG III Ausf. G tanks have the same Firing Positions! change, but they lost their smoke dischargers.
- StG 44 midrange performance nerfed slightly.
- FG 42 midrange and close range performance nerfed slightly.
- Kampfkraftzentrum now explodes on death.
- Slight adjustment to Hetzer projectile to synchronise with firing sequence.
- Change the icon of Nahverteidigungswaffe (NahVW) grenade launcher from one that resembled smoke grenades to an explosive grenade.
- Increased range of 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegeschütz 18 default barrage ability from 85 to 100.
- Jagdpanzer IV/70 (V) cost increased from 420 manpower and 130 fuel to 420 manpower and 160 fuel.

### Wehrmacht

- 12 cm GrW 42 mortar default barrage cost increased from 20 munitions to 30 munitions.

### Waffen-SS

- SS Panzerjäger hotbar ability Hold the Line removed.
- SS Panzer Panthers are now visible but greyed out in the T3 building when heavy armour technology is not unlocked.
- Goliath tracked mine cost adjusted from 180 manpower and 60 munitions to 50 manpower and 125 munitions.
