# v1.1.5.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Soviet Artillery T1 defensive ability can now be reverted to default.
- SS Panzer T1 officer offensive ability can now be reverted to default.
- Tiger Ace now properly receives veterancy level 4 after researching Tank Veterancy III.
- Wehrmacht upgrade Veteran Sergeant, which was intended to grant +25% experience gain, was instead granting +125% experience gain.
- Flak emplacements are now able to target enemies correctly again.
  - This bug was caused by using modded game files when it required the use of vanilla game files.
- Flak emplacements on anti-aircraft mode will correctly no longer target ground units.
- Panzer IVs that spawned with side skirts were getting the 20 HP bonus applied in addition to the side skirts 20 HP bonus.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Anti-tank guns now give a "reverse zeal" effect to other anti-tank gun squads.**
  - Each anti-tank gun now imparts a hidden received suppression, targeting priority, and received accuracy malus on other anti-tank gun squads within 15 metres.
- Smoke barrages no longer receive counterbattery fire.
- Landmines very close to other landmines now only deal 10% damage.
- All larger halftracks, namely the M3 halftrack, the M5 halftrack, and the Sd.Kfz. 251 halftrack, now heal units garrisoned inside of them.
- Long shot has been removed from most vehicles.
  - Only vehicles primarily serving as tank destroyers, including Sherman Fireflies, may research long range shot.
- Infantry anti-tank rockets debuff now only takes effect outside of heavy/garrison cover and also shows a debuff state.
  - The rocket-wielding squad must be out of cover for 3 seconds before this debuff takes effect.
- Vehicle repair kits now only repair vehicles properly out of combat.
  - They still cannot repair vehicle criticals, but this bug is a limitation of the engine. A text note has been added to this effect.
- Officer air strike abilities have been corrected to reflect how long it takes for the strike call to complete, rather than how long it takes for all planes to make their pass.
  - Suppression effects have been increased.
- Medium calibre guns (e.g. 75mm) have had their damage ranges has been universally decreased from 225-375 (most guns) or 240-400 (USF guns) to 250-280.
  - These values are to guarantee certain results:
    - Light tanks (320 HP) will never be 1-shot, but will always be 2-shot;
    - Medium tanks (480 HP) will never be 1-shot or 3-shot, but will always be 2-shot;
    - Medium heavy tanks (650 HP/700 HP) will never be 2-shot, but will always be 3-shot;
    - Heavy tanks (850/950 HP) will never be 3-shot, but will always be 4-shot.
  - These changes are primarily to increase consistency in unit preservation.
  - British medium calibre high-velocity guns (e.g. 17-pounder) damage range has been set to 200-230.
    - However, due to their higher penetration, they have more consistent damage output.
- Small calibre guns (e.g. 57mm, 50mm) have had their damage ranges decreased from their previous value to 180-210 or lower, depending on calibre.
  - British small calibre high-velocity guns (e.g. 6-pounder) damage range has been set to 150-180.
    - Penetration increased from 240/340/440 for far/mid/near to 280/380/480.
  - Most light vehicles will no longer be 1-shot by small calibre guns.
- HEAT projectiles will always deal less damage than their normal projectile counterparts.

#### Computer Opponents

- Expert AI now only cares about units that can capture territory if it has none at all.
- Expert AI will no longer care about how many available points can be captured relative to its unit counts.
- Expert AI will no longer be as choosy about how many support units it needs.

### United States Forces

- M20 armoured car crew entity chance to die on vehicle loss decreased from 50% to 20%.
- M20 armoured car crew icon changed from a vehicle crew icon to an armoured cavalry icon.
- 105mm Sherman moved from Rifle to Ranger.
- Tank Destroyer Major P-47 HVAR Overwatch call-in time increased from 20 seconds to 60 seconds.
- M1 57mm anti-tank gun price decreased from 280 manpower to 270 manpower.
- M5 3-inch anti-tank gun price increased from 290 manpower to 350 manpower.
- P-47 HVAR rocket accuracy has been decreased from 0.008/0.045/0.03 for far/mid/near to 0.002/0.02/0.01.

### British Forces

- **Sherman Firefly main gun range increased from 75 to 85.**
- **Alpha version of a non-doctrinal foot-mobile 17-pounder anti-tank gun is now available from the T2 building.**
  - Crew members sort of float in the middle of the gun.
  - Also, the gun itself has some animation errors while moving that will be fixed in a later update.
- HEAT grenade damage range tightened from 320-420 to 380-420.
- Various doctrine hotbars have been cleaned up somewhat.
- 6-lbr anti-tank gun price increased from 260 manpower to 270 manpower.

### Soviet Union

- **RPG-6 anti-tank grenade damage range tightened from 420-500 to 450-480.**
  - This means that a skirted Panzer IV (500 HP) will never be one-shot by such a grenade.
- ZiS-3 field gun price increased from 290 manpower and 10 munitions to 300 manpower and 15 munitions.
- ZiS-2 field gun price increased from 240 manpower to 330 manpower.
- Tank Destroyer hotbar cleaned up.
- Tank Destroyer Ilyushin Il-2 PTAB loiter call-in time increased from 20 seconds to 60 seconds.
  - PTAB count decreased from 220 bomblets per run to 160 bomblets per run.
  - PTAB damage range decreased from 75-150 to 75-100.
- Naiman hand mortar scatter nerfed to match Granatbüchse 39 scatter.
  - In addition, suppression radius has been reduced to match Granatbüchse 39 suppression radius.
  - Granatbüchse 39 fog of war penalty increased from +100% to +200% (same as all other primarily anti-infantry weapons) but distance scatter offset decreased from 0.5 to 0.25, meaning they will land closer to their targets instead of usually landing short.
- OB-25 has been adjusted.
  - Primary direct fire attack range decreased from 85 (anti-tank gun range) to 60 (usual toggle HE range).
  - Fragmentation round no longer requires an upgrade and is always available on start.
  - Barrage scatter into the fog-of-war increased from +25% to +200%.
  - Area-of-Effect (AoE) adjusted to match the standard for 75mm guns.
- Soviet Artillery T2 offensive ability icon changed to reflect its upgrade icon.
- Delayed fire missions now time out correctly (they last as long as the ability takes to recharge).
  - They also now have an icon on the minimap visible to everyone.
- Motorised M4A2 Sherman cost increased from 380 manpower and 90 fuel to 400 manpower and 95 fuel.

### Axis (Common)

- Kampfkraftzentrum upgrades have been split between Wehrmacht and SS and have small info boxes attached to them describing what units they affect.
  - New icons have been added for all veterancy types as well, though they will need to be redone as they do not fit the theme of Company of Heroes 2 icons.
- Panther tanks of all varieties are no longer capped.
  - Exception to this rule is Jäger Division, which still may only build 2 Panther Ausf. G tanks.
- 7.5 cm leichtes Infanteriegeschütz 18 (7,5 cm le.IG 18) light howitzer direct fire attack range decreased from 85 (anti-tank gun range) to 60 (usual toggle HE range).
  - Area-of-Effect (AoE) adjusted again to match the standard for 75mm guns.

### Wehrmacht

- Hotbar icon indicating passive veterancy bonus for Infanterie changed from a soldier to that of the Kampfkraftzentrum building itself for clarity.
  - Hotbar icon indicating passive veterancy bonus for Leichte added.
- Leichte Panther Command Tank cost reduced from 760 manpower and 210 fuel to 540 manpower and 175 fuel.
  - For comparison, a normal Panther Ausf. G tank costs 560 manpower and 180 fuel.
- Straf Straftruppen may now receive Kampfkraftzentrum veterancy.
  - They gain veterancy from Infantry Veterancy.
  - Their suppression-breaking sprint has been moved from Veterancy Level 2 to Veterancy Level 5.
- Hetzer tank destroyer now requires only Battle Phase 1 instead of Battle Phase 2.

### Waffen-SS

- Panzer T1 halftrack and Mechanised T2 halftrack officers now move at the same speed as other Sd.Kfz. 251 halftracks.
- Panzer Panther Command Tank cost reduced from 760 manpower and 210 fuel to 540 manpower and 175 fuel.
  - This cost decrease is the same as that of the Leichte Panther Command Tank.
