# v1.1.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- No bugs were targeted in this release.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- AT rifle grenades have been adjusted.
  - Like Panzerfausts, enemy vehicles that leave the range of the AT rifle grenades are no longer targeted and the squad must chase after the vehicle.
  - Their tracking has been improved significantly and can much more reliably hit moving light vehicles.
  - Obstacles between the user and the target are much less likely to catch the AT rifle grenade.
- 75mm high-explosive shot explosion effects changed to a slightly heavier artillery explosion effect.

### United States Forces

- T1 officer alternate abilities are now implemented for all doctrines.
  - Officer Plan reflects changes that were determined during this implementation phase.
- BAR slow-fire accuracy changed from 0.2/0.5/0.55 for far/mid/near to 0.17/0.5/0.6.
- M1941 Johnson LMG accuracy reduced from 0.16/0.45/0.6 for far/mid/near to 0.15/0.45/0.55.
- M1919A6 accuracy accuracy reduced from 0.2/0.35/0.5 for far/mid/near to 0.15/0.35/0.5.
- Shotgun accuracy reduced from 0.14/0.4/0.9 for far/mid/near to 0.04/0.3/0.75.

### British Forces

- Sherman Firefly Tulip rocket explosion effects changed to match Panzerschreck effects.
- Valentine 75mm OQF high-explosive shot explosion effects changed to match other 75mm explosion effects.
- 6-pounder high-explosive damage range decreased from 160-240 to 120-200.
- 17-pounder emplacement hotkey changed from A (colliding with Forward Assembly) to V.
- 5.5-inch gun hotkey changed from H (colliding with 25-pounder emplacement, currently unavailable) to R.

### Soviet Union

- Valentine tank 6-pounder high-explosive damage matches regular British 6-pounder high-explosive damage.
- DPM accuracy reduced from 0.2/0.4/0.6 to 0.15/0.4/0.6.
- Soviet Motorised ODON Mechanized Assault Group call-in requirements increased from 2 Command Points to 3 Command Points and a constructed T2 building.

### Wehrmacht

- Straf Kettenhunde are now a trainable unit at the T1 building instead of a call-in.
- Leichte 200. Regimental Pz.Gren Mechanized Assault Group call-in requirements increased from 3 Command Points to 3 Command Points and a constructed T2 building.
- Leichte 90. Grenadier-Division Pz.Gren Mechanized Assault Group call-in requirements increased from 3 Command Points to 3 Command Points and a constructed T2 building.

### Waffen-SS

- SS Mechanisierte Sd.Kfz. 250/1 hotkey changed from H (colliding with MG 34 Heavy Machine Gun) to D.
