# v1.1.4.8

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- Ost pillbox heavy machine gun upgrades were not usable.
  - Pillbox heavy machine guns now properly cost 3 popcap.
- Sounds for various objects that previously were intended to play sounds, such as the Pantherturm, SS Mechanisierte Mortar Bunker, Hetzer main guns, and Early Warning abilities now properly play sounds for all players.
  - Unfortunately, due to quirks in the Company of Heroes 2 engine, the sounds play as if they are located in the middle of the map.
- Hand-held rocket anti-tank weapon debuff was not properly being applied.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Cover tables for various obstacles has been changed.
  - Tank traps excluding road blocks now provide yellow cover instead of green cover.
  - Reinforced barbed wire now provides null cover instead of yellow cover.
  - Barbed wire fences no provide negative cover instead of yellow cover.
  - Barbed wire built very close to sandbags will continue to be negated by the sandbags, but this behaviour seems logical enough; if a soldier is close enough to a sandbag wall to use it as cover, it does not really matter that there is wire in front of it.
- Spacing between tank traps has been increased very slightly.
  - Infantry can now usually fit between tank traps where before, tank traps doubled as wire obstacles.
- Halftracks can now reinforce on the move and in any territory conditions, instead of only while stationary in friendly territory.
- Hand-held rocket anti-tank weapons suppression debuff decreased from +150% to +75%.

### United States Forces

- M5 Halftrack is now non-doctrinal.
- M26 Pershing 90mm high-explosive rounds now use the 105mm high-explosive effect instead of the 122mm high-explosive effect and its damage effects have been slightly reduced.
- **White phosphorus now decrews heavy machine gun upgrades on bunkers and pillboxes of all varieties across all factions, requiring an upgrade to recover.**

### Soviet Union

- **IS-2 has been moved from Tank to Shock, and the KV-2 has been removed from the game for the time being.**
  - The KV-2 may see a reappearance in a different faction.
- IS-2 purpose and behaviour has been adjusted.
  - **Default weapon has been changed from an armour-piercing cannon to a high-explosive cannon.**
    - Deflection damage has been increased from 0% to 22%.
    - Explosive effect now matches that of the 122mm M-30 howitzer.
  - Single shot armour-piercing round ability has same range as other tank guns at 75.
  - Armour has been increased from 1600 to 2000.
  - Cost has been increased from 800 manpower and 230 fuel to 840 manpower and 230 fuel.
  - Propellant upgrade has been removed.
  - Improved breech upgrade has been moved from Tank to Shock.
- M3A1 scout car maximum speed increased from 6.7 to 7.
- 122mm M-30 howitzer no longer has access to direct-fire HEAT rounds.
- Stakhanovite movement (Soviet vehicle build time decrease upgrade) now applies to T-34-85s.

### Axis (Common)

- Sd.Kfz. 251 halftrack maximum speed increased from 5.25 to 6.8.

### Wehrmacht

- Wehrmacht Leichte may no longer manually research Light Vehicle veterancy as it is automatically granted through Battle Phase unlocks.
- King Tiger and Elefant 88mm high-explosive rounds now use the 105mm high-explosive effect instead of the 122mm high-explosive effect and its damage effects have been slightly reduced.
- Sturmpanzer IV main gun range decreased from 75 to 60.

### Waffen-SS

- Jagdtiger 128mm high-explosive rounds now use the 122mm high-explosive effect instead of the 152mm high-explosive effect and its damage effects have been slightly reduced.
