# v1.1.0.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6VeK5jhggB).

## Bugfixes

- ss mg bunkers are weak as hell (no bug report ID, will edit later)

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Withdraw abilities have been given to officers who can arrive in tanks as crew (not to officers who might arrive in a carrier).

### Wehrmacht

- Ostruppen now use Ostruppen models.
- Pillbox modifiers now properly apply, meaning it no longer takes damage from small arms fire when constructed and takes two satchels to demolish (as a baseline).
- Pantherturm adjusted.
  - Modifiers now properly apply, meaning it no longer takes damage from small arms fire and takes a little more than two satchels to demolish.
  - Armour has been increased from 120 (standard concrete building) to 600.
  - Cost increased from 520 manpower and 35 fuel to 520 manpower and 85 fuel to compensate.
  - Sound now properly plays when gun is fired.

### Waffen-SS

- MG 42 bunker adjusted.
  - Hotkey changed from X (colliding with Feldfunkgerät) to A (grid position).
  - Unobtainable upgrades (Maintenance Bunker and Observation Bunker) removed, as the bunker always comes upgraded with an MG42.
  - Munitions cost decreased from 50 munitions to 35 munitions.
  - Modifiers now properly apply, meaning it no longer takes damage from small arms fire when constructed and takes two satchels to demolish (as a baseline).
- Mortar bunker adjusted.
  - Hotkey changed from F (colliding with fuel cache) to D (grid position).
  - Modifiers now properly apply, meaning it no longer takes damage from small arms fire, negligible damage from almost all other sources, and takes over **four** satchels to demolish.
    - One demolition charge still destroys the bunker.
    - This massive health pool might change in a future release as the cause is known (modifier applied on construction stacking with modifier granted by "tactical_mortar_bunker" target type).
  - Cost increased from 380 manpower and 40 fuel to 680 manpower and 120 fuel to compensate.
