# v1.2.3 - Version "The Great Offensive"

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Scorched Earth no longer leaves points with whatever capture progress they had, and instead resets it to 0.
- SS base building wrecks could not be salvaged.
  - Both T1 and T2 base building wrecks now yield 12 fuel when salvaged.
  - T3 base building wrecks now yield 50 fuel when salvaged.
- Some officer strikes could be cancelled and refunded while also allowing the strike to take place.
- USF Mechanised Sherman M4A3(W) 75mm "Prioritize Vehicles" no longer automatically target infantry.
- USF Airborne T2 defensive strafe loiter now ends when the captain moves or is killed.

## Miscellaneous Changes

- A variety of new icons have been added, courtesy of M0131U5.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Explosives no longer suffer any penalties when used against suppressed or pinned units.**
  - Rocket artillery in particular is now potentially more lethal as suppression no longer decreases the chance of units to get hit.
  - As part of this change, the area of effect accuracy of all explosives in the game has been standardised to 100,000%, meaning that units caught within the area of effect of any explosive will no longer have a chance to "dodge" the explosion.
    - **This change may require rebalancing, as tank high explosive rounds may be too effective.**
- **Suppression effects have generally beeen reduced from 0.25x accuracy, 4x reload time, 4x cooldown time, and crawling to only 0.75x accuracy and crawling.**
  - This change should greatly reduce the oppressiveness of suppression from all sources, such as HMGs, LMGs, and grenades.
  - **Pinned units can now crawl around after 5 seconds.**
- **Submachine guns now have greatly decreased moving accuracy penalties.**
  - This change means that squads no longer need to stand still to deal massive damage with SMGs if they are close enough.
  - Suppressive submachine guns, namely the PPSh-41 with drum magazine, the M1928 Thompson with drum magazine, and MP 40/I, no longer suppress. Instead, they have gained a 10% incremental target multiplier; in other words, the more targets in an area, the more accurate they are.
- Non-doctrinal units whose text get changed when a doctrine is picked now indicate what doctrine they are from.
- Defensive Scorched Earth has been adjusted.
  - Instead of replacing the capture abilities of the squad, it instead supplements it.
    - The ability icon is now visible in the unit taskbar.
  - Scorching now takes 3 seconds instead of 9 seconds.
  - Scorching is now locked behind 2 Command Points.
- Flame weapons now suppress enemy units.
  - Notably, molotov cocktails (and their various equivalents) also suppress units that are struck.
- Grenades and explosive direct fire weapons are now generally more effective against units in cover or in garrisons.
  - Grenades will likely suppress units in green cover when attacked frontally.
  - If a grenade hits anywhere in a garrison building, all units in the garrison now take damage.
- Tanks that fire high explosive weapons target windows of garrison buildings instead of firing them through the garrison buildings.
- Heavy machine guns that previously had 120 degree cones of fire, including the MG34, MG42, Vickers, and M1919A4, have had their cones reduced to 100 degrees.
  - In other words, previously, the machine gun could traverse 60 degrees in either direction; now, it can only traverse 50 degrees.
- Tank ramming could sometimes bounce, which would result in only a minor crew shock.
  - Instead, tank ramming will almost always penetrate, in which case it will detrack and cause criticals, but if it bounces off a heavier tank, it will only detrack and cause the same 1-second shock.
  - The ramming tank will always lose its main gun and become immediately immobilised.
  - KV-1 tanks and tanks based on the KV-1 chassis, such as KV-8s, can no longer ram.
    - This change is not the result of something that was inherently a balance issue, but KV-1 ramming was bugged. Medium tanks and tanks of lighter classes would become instantly destroyed upon being rammed, and after extensive debugging, the root cause could not be determined, and as such no fix was possible.
- T1 officer air strafe strength has been boosted, but their costs and cooldowns have also been increased.
  - USF Airborne and Soviet Motorised T1 officer strafes now cost 50 munitions and their cooldowns has been increased from 60 seconds to 120 seconds.
  - Wehrmacht Fallschirmjäger T1 officer strafes now cost 35 munitions and their cooldowns has been increased from 60 seconds to 90 seconds.
- Squads that previously had the 3man_wedge squad formation, which is designed for team weapons, now use the british_line squad formation.
  - While this does mean that the squad leader may be out of place, all SS squads that previously had weird squad lingering problems are much more responsive and should no longer have stragglers.
  - This change makes dodging grenades as SS as reliable as dodging grenades as any other faction.
- Squad detection radii have been unified under what category of unit they belong to.
  - All infantry that are not recon now have a sight radius of 70 and a camouflage detection radius of 20 regardless of what other role they serve.
  - All light reconnaissance vehicles have a sight radius of 70 and a camouflage detection radius of 35.
  - All open-top, non-reconnaissance vehicles have a sight radius of 60 and a camouflage detection radius of 10.
  - All other vehicles have a sight radius of 35 and a meagre camouflage detection radius of 5.
    - This small radius means that they effectively will not be able to see camouflaged units until they crush them by accident.
  - A notable loser in this change is the Universal Carrier, which had a camouflage detection radius of 60, which is as far as its sight range.
  - This change also means that units previously designated as scouts, such as pathfinders and Jägers, no longer have bonus vision or detection.
- **Hand-held HEAT-based anti-tank weapons have been rebalanced.**
  - Rocket anti-tank weapons have been adjusted.
    - Maximum range accuracy increased from 0.009 to 0.012 (0.9% to 1.2%).
    - Range increased from 60 to 70.
    - Cooldown decreased to 0.
    - Reload universally decreased by 1 second (7.5-8.5 seconds for Bazookas and Panzerschrecks reduced to 6.5-7.5 seconds, 6.5-7.5 seconds for PIATs reduced to 5.5-6.5 seconds).
    - Penetration of Panzerschrecks and Panzerfausts has been decreased from 1700/1800/1900 for far/mid/near to 800/800/800 for far/mid/near.
    - Penetration of Faustpatrone 30s has been decreased from 900/1000/1100 for far/mid/near to 550/550/550 for far/mid/near.
    - Suppression penalty for being out of cover reduced from +75% to +25%.
      - Penalty is also removed when the squad is in a garrison.
    - 2x damage multiplier against light vehicles added.
  - Raketenwerfer has also been similarly adjusted.
    - Maximum range accuracy increased from 0.0095 to 0.013 (0.95% to 1.3%).
    - Range increased from 60 to 75.
    - Reload decreased by 1 second from 6-7 seconds to 5-6 seconds.
  - **Damage range reduced from roughly 425-485 to 220-250.**
  - Deflection damage increased from 5% to 25%.
    - Paradoxically, this effect, combined with the damage range reduction, makes rocket anti-tank weapons more reliable at dealing damage to heavy and superheavy tanks.
- AT rifle grenades can now be fired over obstacles and are marginally more effective at tracking moving targets as long as there is nothing between the shooter and the target.
- Certain heavy explosive weapons now cause a "heavy stun" effect, which causes a 15-second slowing effect after the stun ends.
  - These weapons include the B-4 203mm artillery and Stuka bomb drop.
- If the player loses their Headquarters building, they will lose 50% of their base manpower income; in other words, they will receive a flat -150 manpower per minute.
- Trenches should be able to be buildable after they are destroyed.
- Heavy tanks are now harder to repair; normal heavy tanks take 100% extra damage but have 100% extra health, while super heavy tanks take 200% extra damage but have 200% extra health.
  - As repair rates scale linearly with the number of repair engineers on a target, this means that repairing a normal heavy from 0 HP to full HP will take twice as long, and a super heavy three times as long.
  - Heavy tank maximum health values have been set to 850, but with the received damage debuff, they are set to 1700 instead.
    - Normal heavy tanks include the M26 Pershing, all Churchill tanks, IS-2s, ISU-122s, ISU-152s, KV-1s, KV-2s, KV-8s, SU-152s, Sturmtigers, and Tiger I tanks.
    - Tiger Ace tanks are not included in this change; they still repair at normal speed.
  - Super heavy tank health values have been set to 1000, but with the received damage debuff, they are set to 3000 instead.
    - This change means that Jagdtigers and King Tigers both have had their health increased from 950 to 1000, matching the Elefant.
- Aircraft that have been suppressed by anti-aircraft fire can no longer spot for themselves.
- Road blocks are now destroyed in 1 hit by demolition charges.
- Sandbag walls no longer get crushed when a vehicle drives over them.
- Anti-tank squads and medic squads have been uncapped.
  - Anti-tank squads can now capture territory.

### United States Forces

- M7 light anti-tank mines trigger on infantry as well as tanks as per its description but deal 2 levels of track damage to tanks while immobilising light vehicles.
  - British Hawkins mines are included in this category.
- T3 Major ability "At Any Cost" was not working properly; criticals would only get removed on ability activation, rather than throughout its activation time.
- Composition B can be thrown at the ground.

### British Forces

- **British rework of Commando has begun, and the Maquis have begun replacing Commando units.**
- An indicator has been added to the hotbar to indicate how many technologies the player has researched.
- British Hammer Lee-Enfield accuracy upgrade cost decreased from 250 manpower and 50 fuel to 125 manpower and 25 fuel.
- 6-pounder anti-tank guns Target Tread ability upgrade Veterancy requirement reduced from Veterancy 1 to Veterancy 0.
- Sherman Firefly Tulip rockets role adjusted; they now deal 60% damage against vehicles, but their anti-building damage has been increased from 300% to 350%.
- PIATs have been adjusted again such that they more reliably fire over obstacles.
  - They suffer from the same HEAT damage reductions as other hand-held rocket AT weapons, but their natural fire rate is faster than that of other hand-held rocket AT.
- Churchill tank prices have been adjusted.
  - Churchill AVRE cost decreased from 560 manpower, 150 munitions, and 180 fuel to 560 manpower, 150 munitions, and **150 fuel**. Population space requirement decreased from 28 to 24.
  - Churchill Crocodile cost decreased from 600 manpower, 50 munitions, and 210 fuel to 600 manpower, 50 munitions, and **160 fuel**. Population space requirement decreased from 26 to 22.
  - Churchill Mk. IV cost decreased from 460 manpower and 120 fuel to 460 manpower and **95 fuel**. Population space requirement decreased from 20 to 18.
  - Churchill Mk. VII (A42) cost decreased from 460 manpower, 50 munitions, and 160 fuel to 460 manpower, **0 munitions**, and **120 fuel**. Population space requirement decreased from 22 to 20.
- Churchill tank Vickers K pintle machine gun upgrades are no longer gated behind UKF Tank.
- Churchill maximum speed increased by 50%, going from 3 to 4.5.
  - For comparison, the KV-1 tank has a maximum speed of 5.1.
- Churchill AVRE spigot mortar now deals 3x as much damage to defensive structures and has 40x as much accuracy (at maximum range, the AVRE should no longer miss defensive structures).
  - Maximum angle of attack increased from 35 degrees to 70 degrees.

### Soviet Union

- Tank Destroyer Partisan Opel Blitz is now automatically targeted when spotted.
- Maxim HMG horizontal traverse speed decreased from 35 degrees per second to 30 degrees per second.
- SG-43 HMG horizontal traverse speed increased from 26 degrees per second to 35 degrees per second.
- T3 Major ability "Deep Battle" was not working properly; criticals would only get removed on ability activation, rather than throughout its activation time.
  - The received damage decrease was increased from -35% received damage to -50% received damage.
  - The speed increase was increased from 1.25x maximum speed to 1.4x maximum speed.
- KV-1 tanks now have heavy tank health, meaning their total HP increased from 700 HP (non-standard) to 850 HP (standard heavy HP).
  - Consequentially, they now suffer from the heavy tank repair speed debuff.
- SU-152s are now classified as heavy tanks, up from the non-standard 700 HP for KV-1 tanks.
- Vehicle-thrown grenade abilities have had their cooldowns increased from 5 seconds to 30 seconds.
  - SU-152 grenade assault ability cooldown increased from 20 seconds to 45 seconds.

### Wehrmacht

- Sturmpanzer IV "Brummbär" health increased from 600 to 650, which is standard heavy medium HP.

### Waffen-SS

- SS Panzer 500 kg Stuka bomb drop text clarified to be able to only target strategic points.
- Decreased the suppression resistance of the upgraded Sprint from 95% resistance to 85% resistance.
- SS HQ truck auras have been either fixed or adjusted such that they work a little better.
  - T1 reinforcement auras no longer affect enemy units in the sector.
  - T2 production speed auras no longer cause mortars and MG42s to build at ridiculous speeds.
  - T3 defensiveness auras properly work with the other HQ trucks in the sector.
- Stuka zu Fuß 28 cm Nebelwerfer 41 damage range reduced from 480-500 to 380-400 damage for a net 100 damage reduction.
