# v1.2 - Version "Rule Britannia"

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Major Announcement

Due to issues concerning branding and name ownership, Spearhead II will be called Ironside going forward.

## Bugfixes

- Only spawnable Flak emplacements appear to have been fixed; adjusted vanilla guns for buildable Flak emplacements.
- BM-13 Katyusha veterancy for rocket artillery cooldown was applying double per level, resulting in 100% cooldown reduction by Veterancy 5.
- Sherman and Valentine smoke mortars no longer trigger counterbattery fire.
- Radpanzer correctly gives the +50% additional armour as advertised instead of +100% additional armour.
- Churchill tanks on "Prioritise Vehicles" no longer automatically target infantry.
- An almost intangible bug could arise with United States regular skill infantry recrewing team weapons, where the rate of fire upgrade did not affect crews of recrewed team weapons.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Repair Bay territories on maps that contain them have been adjusted.
  - Repair rate has been decreased by 50% from 0.33 health points per minute to 0.1667 health points per minute.
  - As intended, they now only repair units that are out of combat for at least 15 seconds.
- Similarly, field hospital territory heal rate has been decreased from 0.33 health points per minute to 0.1 health points per minute.
- Anti-tank rifle grenades now fire in a slight arc.
  - This behaviour change largely prevents them from impacting against objects between the shooter and the target.
  - A side effect is that fast-moving vehicles have a higher chance of escaping from enemies if there are obstacles between the shooter and the target due to the arcing projectile.
- Munitions costs of all jeeps (e.g. Kubelwagen, Dodge WC51, GAZ 67, etc.) have been roughly cut in half.
  - E.g. .30 cal jeep cost decreased from 240 manpower and 20 munitions to 240 manpower and 10 munitions.
  - E.g. MG42 Kubelwagen cost decreased from 240 manpower and 40 munitions to 240 manpower and 20 munitions.
- Firing cone of the .50 M2HB has been increased from 30 degrees in either direction to 40 degrees in either direction, while the firing cone of the DShK has been increased from 25 degrees in either direction to 35 degrees in either direction.
  - Additionally, the .50 M2HB and DShK have both had their penetration values increased by 2 at all ranges.
  - Crewed variants of the .50 M2HB and DShK machine guns now have incremental target accuracy multipliers of 1.04; this means that for every unit within bursting radius, the accuracy of the machine guns increases by 4%.
- Penetration of all 20mm autocannons has been reduced by half from 50/75/100 for far/mid/near to 25/37.5/50.
  - This change includes the Sd.Kfz. 222, T-60, Centaur AA, Panzer II Luchs, Sd.Kfz. 251 flak halftrack, and the 20mm flak emplacement.
- Most units that can manually enter camouflage (that is, crawl low to the ground to actively enable camouflage) now have their sight radii reduced by 50% while camouflaged.
- Grenade damage output against pinned units dramatically increased to match damage output against suppressed units.

### United States Forces

- **Rear echelon no longer have access to BARs but instead have access to M18 recoilless rifles without Veterancy lock.**
  - Tank Destroyer rear echelon may purchase M9 bazookas with M6A3 rockets at Veterancy 2 instead of their normal M18 recoilless rifle upgrade, but they still have access to the non-doctrinal M18 recoilless rifle.
- .50 M2HB machine guns no longer lose speed when sprinting.
- When decrewing certain vehicles with vehicle crews, crew members should not randomly die.
- M20 utility car and M8 Greyhound armour skirts upgrade changed from providing a flat +80 HP and +40% armour to +33% HP and +50% armour as advertised.
  - In effect, this increases the armour effect of the upgrade by +10% but decreases the HP effect by 10 HP, as M20 utility cars and M8 Greyhounds both have 210 HP by default.
- M36 Jackson tank destroyer has been buffed somewhat.
  - Population space requirement has been decreased from 20 to 16.
  - Cost has been decreased from 460 manpower and 175 fuel to 460 manpower and 140 fuel.
- M1 75mm pack howitzer unit limit has been removed.
- M7B1 Priest 105mm howitzer motor carriage unit limit has been removed.
- M8A1 Scott 75mm howitzer motor carriage unit limit has been removed.
- M20 crew bazooka ability has been replaced with a sticky bomb instead.
- M3 grease gun statistics have been generally improved in accuracy, burst length, targeting, and scatter.
  - They are roughly comparable as a cheaper version of an MP40.
- M4A3E2 "Jumbo" Sherman cost decreased from 740 manpower and 220 fuel to 680 manpower and 200 fuel.
- M4A3E8 Sherman 76mm cost decreased from 420 manpower and 130 fuel to 380 manpower and 110 fuel.
  - Cheap variant cost decreased from 380 manpower and 100 fuel to 360 manpower and 90 fuel.
- M18 recoilless rifle behaviour adjusted significantly.
  - White phosphorus variant only had penetration changed from 280 at all ranges to 20 at all ranges.
  - Cost of standard variant decreased from 50 munitions to 30 munitions.
  - Standard penetration halved from 280 at all ranges to 140 at all ranges.
  - Accuracy multiplier against light vehicles increased from 3x to 7x.
  - Maximum range increased from 60 to 75, matching that of anti-tank rifles.
  - Damage multiplier against infantry decreased from 1x to 0.33x, meaning they can barely one-shot infantry on direct hit.
  - Damage range tightened from 180-260 to 200-220.
  - Area of effect tightened.
- Bazooka friendly fire damage now matches its normal damage output.

### British Forces

- **First phase of the British rework has been completed.**
  - NB: Balance of the British rework is likely poor due to lack of PvP testing.
  - **Hammer and Anvil mechanics have been largely removed for the main roster.**
    - Unit availability and upgrades have been unified regardless of Hammer and Anvil choice.
    - Only hammer variants of doctrinal selections have been kept; the anvil variants have been dropped.
      - This change affects unit naming only.
    - Hammer and Anvil passive effects have universally been removed.
    - Hammer and Anvil choice only affects the selection of global upgrades available at the "Logistics Command Post" and some graphics on base buildings.
    - As some upgrades were divided between hammer and anvil, some hammer upgrades were kept and anvil upgrades dropped and vice versa. For a comprehensive list:
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Sapper Boys AT rifle has been kept; Sapper PIAT upgrade has been removed.
      - (Anvil upgrade was kept) Rifle grenade on rifle sections has been kept; Mills bomb assault upgrades have been removed.
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Tank Rifle section and Sapper M9 bazooka has been kept; M9 bazooka with M6A3 rockets upgrade has been removed.
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Airborne Vickers K LMG has been kept; MG34 upgrade has been removed.
      - (Anvil upgrade was kept) Artillery Rifle section M1919A6 LMG has been kept; Lewis gun upgrade has been removed.
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Rifle section Sten Mk. II SMGs have been kept; various Anvil upgrades, such as DMRs and Sten MK. V SMGs, have been removed.
      - (Non-linear change) Guard Rifle sections now have drum mag Thompson SMGs.
      - (Non-linear change) Commando section Sten Mk. II(S) silenced SMG and M1 Thompson SMG upgrades have been mixed.
      - (Anvil upgrade was kept) Commando PIAT section Sten Mk. II(S) silenced SMGs have been kept; M1 Thompson SMG upgrades have been removed.
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Airborne paratrooper Sten Mk. V SMGs have been kept; M1 Thomspon SMG upgrades have been removed.
      - (Hammer upgrade was kept) Sapper flamethrower has been kept; Sten Mk. II SMG upgrade has been removed.
      - (Both upgrades were kept) Universal carriers can now build WASP or Vickers K upgrades regardless of hammer or anvil.
    - Guard Anvil increased squad size is no longer Anvil-locked.
      - Guard Hammer faster deployment time has been removed.
    - Light vehicle deployment time decrease upgrade is no longer Hammer-locked.
      - Light vehicle received suppression reduction upgrade has been removed.
    - Faster cooldown (Hammer) and increased accuracy global upgrades have both been removed.
      - The first upgrade affected all Rifle section weapons regardless of whether they were Lee-Enfields, while the latter did nothing.
    - Anti-tank team squad size and skill upgrades are no longer Hammer/Anvil-locked.
- **British officers have relegated to only foot-mobile variants; the vehicle variants will come around the same time American vehicle officers are re-implemented.**
  - These foot-mobile variants are now *trained* at the T0 (Headquarters) building, rather than deployed via call-in.
  - Officers show a preview of what abilities they have.
- British starting resources increased from 310 manpower and 20 fuel to 380 manpower and 20 fuel.
- Bolster Infantry Squads cost decreased from 100 manpower and 50 fuel to 100 manpower and 30 fuel.
- Rifle sections no longer have access to sticky bombs due to lack of UI space.
- Emplacements are now generally fixed; they can get decrewed if their health drops below 15%, but are about 75% more survivable in general.
  - Their death criticals are also fixed, so they properly die if their health decreases to 0.
- Sapper Bren LMGs have been replaced with Sten Mk. II SMGs locked behind Veterancy 1.
- 3-inch mortar emplacement cost decreased from 380 manpower, 45 munitions, and 25 fuel to 360 manpower and 45 munitions.
  - The mortar emplacement is also now non-doctrinal.
- 17-pounder emplacement cost decreased from 400 manpower and 20 fuel to 320 manpower and 20 fuel.
- Cromwell VI 95mm howitzer tank unit limit has been removed.
- Centaur AA tank unit limit has been removed.
- Sherman Firefly VC population space requirement has been decreased from 18 to 16.
- New unit: Achilles tank destroyer; compared to the M10 tank destroyer, the Achilles tank destroyer is:
  - Slower;
  - More expensive;
  - Higher CP count;
  - Uses a 17-pounder instead of a 3-inch gun M7.
- New unit: Sherman Firefly IC; compared to the Sherman Firefly VC, the Sherman Firefly IC is:
  - Very slightly faster;
  - Much cheaper;
  - Has no access to APDS;
  - Has no access to Tulip rockets;
  - Has a substantially worse armour array at 500 compared to the Firefly VC's 700 armour.
- BL 5.5-inch medium gun Mk3 artillery unit limit has been removed.
- M7B1 Priest 105mm howitzer motor carriage unit limit has been removed.
- M7B1 Priest (9 CP) and 25pdr, SP, tracked, Sexton II (11 CP) CP requirements have been swapped; that is, the Sexton II now requires 9 CP, and the Priest now requires 11 CP.
- Land Mattress CP requirement increased from 9 CP to 11 CP.

### Soviet Union

- DShK burst length has been increased from 1.5-2.5 seconds to 3-4 seconds.
  - For comparison, the .50 M2HB has a burst length of 3.5-5 seconds.
- Delayed fire mission flags are now much larger so that they are more visible to the enemy.

### Axis (Common)

- Sonderkraftfahrzeug 251/20 Ausf. D "Uhu" unit limit has been removed.
- All Panther tank variants have had their costs increased by 40 manpower and 20 fuel each.

### Wehrmacht

- Beutepanzer T-34 armour increased from 650 to 850 to match the Soviet T-34.
- Pantherturms type from "ambient_building" to "defence_building" to see if it prevents gliders from crushing them.
- Sturmhaubitze (StuH) 42 unit limit has been removed.
- Sd.Kfz. 221 scout car cost increased from 210 manpower, 15 munitions, and 10 fuel to 240 manpower, 20 munitions, and 25 fuel.
- Panzerkampfwagen II Ausf. J "Baby Tiger" CP requirement decreased from 8 CP to 5 CP.

### Waffen-SS

- Sturmtiger population space requirement decreased from 30 to 26.
- Sturmtiger fire sequence should now simultaneously drop both regular red smoke and yellow smoke.
- SS Panzer T2 Command Tank dispatch cost increased from 380 manpower and 60 fuel to 420 manpower and 65 fuel.
  - CP requirement increased from 3 CP to 4 CP.
- Removed defunct default Panther tank unit limit when a more specific unit limit existed for SS-Jäger specifically.
- Jäger Division may no longer build 10.5 cm leFH 18 howitzers.
