# v1.2.2.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Silenced Sten SMGs now correctly autofire.
- Weapon teams no longer have extremely fast sprinting speed.
- [#354 - [BUG] SS Panzerjager recrewing Stug F8 turns it into a Stug G with the wrong abilities](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/354)
- Waffen-SS HMG42 Pillboxes can now successfully recover from being attacked by white phosphorus.

## Miscellaneous Changes

- All strings used in the game have been examined for mechanical usefulness (no effect on players).
  - In total, the number of strings in use in the game has been reduced from ~22,000 to ~10,000, cutting the size of the localisation file in half.
    - Unused strings have been removed.
    - Duplicate strings have had their references replaced by the lowest value localisation ID and then removed, as they have become unused.
  - French localisation has also been examined, though due to the nature of localisation, some duplicates remain in French.
  - Future plans to add localisation support for other languages supported by Company of Heroes 2, such as Spanish, Russian, German, and Polish, are now on the table to be considered for machine translation.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Land mines in general now display a kicker message "Hit Mine!" on units that strike them.
  - If the unit dies to the land mine, no message will appear.

### United States Forces

- Sticky bombs can now be used against people.

### Soviet Union

- **Basic T-34s and all T4 vehicles are now locked behind Armoured Fist.**
  - It is no longer possible to skip T3 to build T4 units, though it is still possible to skip T3 to research T4 technologies.
- Universal Carrier cost increased from 190 manpower, 15 munitions, and 5 fuel to 240 manpower, 15 munitions, and 5 fuel.

### Axis (Common)

- Riegel and Teller mines now use the default mine explosion effect in addition to their typical explosion effect.
  - Riegel mines have regained their Gammon bomb explosion effect.
  - Teller mines have gained the artillery explosion effect.

### Waffen-SS

- SS-Stoßtruppen 4x StG 44 upgrade cost increased from 100 munitions to 135 munitions.
  - SS Sturm variant, which does not require Veterancy 1 to unlock, remains at 100 munitions.
