# v1.2.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Some officers did not have 0 population space requirement.
- American .50 M2HB machine guns were immobile on spawn due to an botched fix of their sprint ability.
- British BL 5.5-inch medium gun Mk3 artillery was unable to be built.
- British foot-mobile 17-pounder cost 427 manpower instead of the intended 375 manpower.
- British Land Mattress was showing in the UI in an incorrect position.
- British Sherman IC "Firefly" squads were coming with Sherman VC "Firefly" tanks in them.
- British Sherman VC "Firefly" squads could not be built as the base building was referencing the modded variant.
- [#363 - [BUG] Panther wrecks do not provide green cover](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/363)

## Balance Changes

### Global

- All loiters will immediately end if the officer calling them is pinned, killed, moved, or retreated.
  - Due to a current engine limitation, the planes will simply die immediately; ideally, they would fly away instead.

### United States Forces

- Forward Headquarters repair teams no longer work on units that are currently in combat.
- Tank Destroyer Doctrine T3 rocket loiter aircraft count lowered from 7 to 5.

### British Forces

- Requisition Level 3 technology costs decreased from 100 manpower and 80 fuel per technology to 100 manpower and 50 fuel per technology.
- Requisition Level 4 technology costs decreased from 100 manpower and 50 fuel per technology to 100 manpower and 40 fuel per technology.
- Requisition technologies now have a small indicator that shows what Requisition Level they are.
  - They also no longer glow, as there are too many requisition technologies for the glow to have any meaning.
- Comet I tank cost decreased from 420 manpower and 125 fuel to 375 manpower and 90 fuel.
- Hotkey for the ML 4.2-inch mortar changed from D (colliding with ML 3-inch mortar) to F.
- Hotkey for the AEC armoured car changed from C (colliding with Universal Carrier) to W.

### Soviet Union

- Tank Destroyer Doctrine T2 Ilyushin Il-2 PTAB loiter aircraft count lowered from 5 to 4.
