# v1.2.3.1

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- SS Panzer Tiger I had double HP but was not receiving double damage.
- SS leIGs are no longer affected by the AT gun negative zeal effect.
- KV-1s could not fire their main guns at anything.
- Vehicles that were abandoned can now turn their turrets immediately after being recrewed.
- A lot of artillery types, such as 152mm artillery and Katyusha rockets, did not create usable craters with cover effects.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Hand-held rocket anti-tank maximum range accuracy decreased from 0.012 to 0.0095 (1.2% to 0.95%).
- Scout squads now see in a circular radius only up until their detection radius, after which they see only in a 60 degree cone.

### United States Forces

- M18 recoilless rifle maximum range accuracy increased from 0.009 to 0.0095 (0.9% to 0.95%).

### British Forces

- FFI Maquisards now require T1 to train.
- FFI 2nd Ukrainian Battalion Rallies have had their loadout adjusted to not be so buggy.
  - Squad leader weapon also changed out to be the UD 42 as the MP 40 was invisible.
  - They also now have capacity for 4 slot items (2 items in practice).
- Sherman Firefly HE ability targeting reticle now matches that of other tank HE abilities.

### Soviet Union

- BM-13 Katyusha rocket launchers now fire at a high angle and fire much more slowly, with a 0.5 second delay betwen rockets.

### Axis (Common)

- Raketenwerfer maximum range accuracy decreased from 0.013 to 0.01 (1.3% to 1.0%).
- Stuka zu Fuß Nebelwerfer 41 damage range reduced again from 380-400 to 280-300 damage for a net 100 damage reduction.
  - Damage modifier against infantry decreased from 0.33 to 0.2.
  - For comparison, the Panzerwerfer deals 170-210 damage per rocket.
- Panzerwerfer rocket launchers now fire much more slowly, with a 0.5 second delay between rockets.

### Waffen-SS

- SS Panzer no longer has access to the Stuka zu Fuß Nebelwerfer 41.
- Panzer IV Ausf. J tanks now fire high-explosive rounds instead of high-explosive anti-tank rounds.
