# v1.2 - British Plan

As of 01-March-2023, this document is not final.

## Overview

The British Forces (United Kingdoms Forces, or UKF for short) have had a very weird teching and tiering system since development of Spearhead II began, and with routine nerfs to points of imbalance, it has become apparent that the faction suffers from a completely opaque teching structure and ultimately difficult teching scheme due to the existence of only two base buildings. The intent behind the design proposal is to give the UKF their own unique identity and playstyle separate from all other factions' playstyle while also making sure that their overall tech timings and unit timings are balanced.

Core changes for UKF are that:

1. All units will be gated behind very specific technologies that must be researched before they can be built.
   - For example, building a basic heavy machine gun would require technology to requisition machine gun units.
   - For example, building a basic mortar would require technology to requisition mortar units.

   All technologies for a given tier can be researched in any order, but most technologies must be researched before the next tier can have any upgrades researched.
   - For example, before a light tank can be built, machine guns, mortars, and anti-tank guns must be requisitioned, and then the technology for the light tank in question must be completed.
   - Technologies are divided into general categories.
     - For example, any heavy machine gun, such as a Vickers HMG, or a Vickers K, can be built after the machine gun technology is completed.
     - For example, any halftrack can be built after the basic light vehicles technology is completed, which in turn requires the completion of the aforementioned machine guns, mortars, and anti-tank guns technologies.
2. Base buildings are cheap, fast to build, and do not have any technology requirements to build.
   - As these buildings can be built in any order, and they all cost the same, a player is free to build any base buildings if they wish to beeline for specific global technology upgrades, though global technology upgrades may have technology order.
     - For example, a global upgrade to improve Lee-Enfield bolting time must be researched before a global upgrade to improve Lee-Enfield accuracy can be researched. For ease of use, tiered upgrades such as this one will exist in the same upgrade space as other upgrades of the same category.
3. Global hammer and anvil as a doctrinal distinction will have been removed.
   - Instead, global hammer and anvil upgrades can be researched to unlock hammer and anvil specific technologies. For example,
     - If the player elects to research "Hammer" on their T3 building, then a set of upgrades will be unlocked to purchase. These upgrades may include the Lee-Enfield upgrades, Cromwell engine speed upgrades, decreased cost on unit ugprades, and other offensively-oriented unit upgrades.
     - If the player elects to research "Anvil" on their T3 building, then an alternate set of upgrades will be unlocked. These upgrades may include largely economic upgrades, such as increased manpower gain, increased munitions gain, decreased global upkeep, improved emplacement armour and health, and other defensively-oriented economic upgrades.
4. Emphasis on controlling the pace of the game with superior speed, consistent damage, and sight control.
   - Units generally will have good line of sight and the ability to manipulate other players' line of sight through plentiful use of effective smoke abilities.
     - For example, tanks will have cheap and rapidly recharging smoke shell abilities, and some tanks will gain toggle smoke shell abilities.
   - Units generally will have lower but more consistent damage output at all ranges.
     - Almost all dedicated anti-tank weapons (with some exceptions) will feature over 25% improvement on penetration when compared to similar weapons for other Allied factions.
   - Units generally will have superior mobility but are more fragile in general, with the exception of doctrine(s) that focus exclusively on heavy tanks.
     - Most units will gain access to better sprint abilities by default, with further tradeoffs possible as the game continues.
     - Even heavy unit focused doctrine(s) will have an emphasis on superior line of sight, consistent damage output, and line of sight control.
   - Conversely, high-explosive and high damage weapons will be difficult to obtain.
     - For example, the BL 5.5-inch medium gun Mk3 artillery is likely to be gated behind a very large number of technologies, and with every gun built, a new one must be requisitioned for construction from a tech building.

Compared to other factions, the UKF would research many, many more technologies; the United States Forces (internally known as the American Expeditionary Force, or AEF) have units gated behind tier unlocks, but do not build base buildings at all, the Soviet Union have units gated strictly behind base buildings, the Wehrmacht combines tier unlocks and base buildings, and the SS have units gated strictly behind truck-based base buildings. Noticeable distinctions for the UKF that would be felt right away would include being unable to build machine guns, machine gun carriers, or machine gun cars after their initial amount of munitions is obtained, as they would require fuel to first requisition machine guns, being unable to build any mobile units until the first tier of upgrades is completed, and a slow ramp-up time in their build-up. However, by the lategame, the UKF player would feel like they are in control over the pacing of the game; they dictate when engagements happen or where they happen, and their superior technology advantage means that they alone can stand toe-to-toe against a fully teched Axis player without numerical superiority or even numerical parity.

Some downsides that a UKF player will feel throughout the game would include being starved for manpower and fuel as they struggle to balance their teching rate and their unit count, their units feeling exceedingly fragile due to their small starting size and lower number in general, manpower income decreasing steadily over the course of the game as unlocked technologies hamper their manpower gain, and struggling to make comebacks if they suffer serious defeats in the early or midgame. Potentially, a UKF player focusing too heavily on technologies over units or too heavily on units over technologies would easily find their resource situation off-balance and would find it even harder to balance their resources as a result.

However, despite the radical new changes that the UKF will experience, it is hoped that the end result will still be fun, unique to play, and offer plenty of interesting strategic choices.

### Doctrines

Some doctrines have been merged, others have been reworked/retooled.

- Special Operations
  - This doctrine merges Parachute and Commando.
- Guard
- Artillery
- Tank
- Mechanised
  - This doctrine replaces Armoured.
- Free French (Marquis)

### Technology

Each requisitions technology researched will decrease manpower gain by 1%; with all requisition technologies unlocked, potentially could result in a debuff of 16%, though it is unlikely that any doctrine will have access to every requisition technology. Thus, in practice, the actual manpower debuff by the lategame will be somewhere between 10-14%.

## Roster Changes

All roster changes include their positions on the 3x4 UI grid, one-indexed where 11 is the top left (row 1, column 1), and 34 is the bottom right (row 3, column 4).

- Tier 0 - Field Headquarters
  - Row 1
    - 11 - Royal Engineers
    - 12 - Rifle Section
    - 13, 14 - Doctrinal Infantry
      - Mostly the same as before
  - Row 2
    - 21 - Tank Hunter Section
    - 22 - Recce Team
    - 23 - Combat Medics
    - 24 - Logistics requisition, GMC CCKW truck
  - Row 3
    - 31 - Tier 1 Officer
    - 32 - Tier 2 Officer
    - 33 - Tier 3 Officer
    - 34 - Rally Point Setting
- Tier 1 - Support Command Post
  - Row 1
    - 11 - Machine gun requisition, Vickers heavy machine gun
    - 12 - Doctrinal machine gun light vehicle
      - Special Operations - Vickers K Jeep
      - Others - Bren carrier
      - TBD/Possible - Vickers K HMG
    - 13 - Mortar requisition, 3-inch mortar
    - 14 - Doctrinal indirect fire platform
      - Guard - 4.2-inch heavy mortar (120mm mortar)
      - Mechanised - Mortar halftrack
      - Others - 2-inch mortar
  - Row 2
    - 21 - Anti-tank gun requisition, 6-pounder anti-tank gun
    - 22 - 17-pounder anti-tank gun
    - 23 - Halftrack requisition, M5 Halftrack
    - 24 - Doctrinal halftrack/light vehicle
      - Special Operations/Artillery/Free French - M3A1 scout car
      - Guard/Tank/Mechanised - AEC armoured car
  - Row 3
    - 31 - Light tank requisition, Valentine light tank
    - 32 - Doctrinal light tank
      - Special Operations/Artillery/Free French - M8 Greyhound
      - Guard/Tank/Mechanised - Stuart light tank
    - 33 - Anti-aircraft requisition, M15A1 anti-aircraft halftrack
      - Special Operations/Free French - M16 anti-aircraft halftrack
    - 34 - Rally Point Setting
- Tier 2 - Vehicle Command Post
  - Row 1
    - 11 - Medium tank requisition, Cromwell IV medium tank
    - 12 - Sherman V medium tank
    - 13 - Support tank requisition, Doctrinal support tank
      - Special Operations - Cromwell VI (95mm howitzer)
      - Guard/Tank - Centaur AA tank
      - Artillery/Free French - M10 tank destroyer
      - Mechanised - Achilles tank destroyer
    - 14 - Tank destroyer requisition, Doctrinal tank destroyer
      - Guard/Tank - Comet tank
      - Special Operations/Mechanised - Sherman Firefly VC
      - Artillery/Free French - Sherman Firefly IC
  - Row 2
    - 21 - Advanced technology requisition, Doctrinal advanced tank
      - Guard/Tank - Churchill IV
      - Mechanised/Free French - Sherman IVA (M4A3(76)W Sherman)
      - Special Operations/Artillery - Nothing
    - 22 - Heavy tank requisition (requires Advanced tank requisition), Doctrinal heavy tank
      - Guard - Churchill VII
    - 23 - Doctrinal heavy tank (second)
      - Guard - Churchill Crocodile
    - 24 - Specialist heavy tank requisition (requires Heavy tank requisition), Doctrinal specialist heavy tank
      - Guard - Churchill AVRE
  - Row 3
    - 31 - Artillery requisition (requires Advanced technology requisition), Doctrinal self-propelled artillery
      - Special Operations/Artillery - Sexton 25-pounder self-propelled gun
      - Priest - Free French
    - 32 - Rocket artillery requisition, Doctrinal rocket artillery
      - Land Mattress - Mechanised
    - 33 - Heavy artillery requisition, Doctrinal buildable heavy artillery
      - BL 5.5-inch medium gun Mk3 artillery
    - 34 - Rally Point Setting
- Tier 3 - Logistics Command Post
  - Researchable technologies are divided along the middle for a total of 6 possible technologies for either Hammer or Anvil; all technologies are visible on the building, which halves the number of upgrades possible.
  - These technologies do not cause any manpower drain.
  - Hammer
    - (Common) Tiered Lee-Enfield rifle upgrade
      - T1 - Increased rate-of-fire
      - T2 - Increased accuracy
    - (Common) 20% munitions gain
    - (Common) Medium tank specific upgrade
      - Cromwell IV tank universally replaced with Cromwell V tank
        - Tank Doctrine receives an expensive tiered upgrade for a potential ahistorical replacement with Cromwell VII
    - (Common) Tank destroyer upgrade
      - 17-pounder gun penetration upgrade (AP -> APCBC)
    - Further/doctrinal upgrades TBD
      - Potentially, each doctrine will have access to 2 unique hammer technologies
  - Anvil
    - (Common) Remove manpower debuff from technologies
    - (Common) 40% decreased manpower upkeep
    - (Common) Unit upgrade discounts
      - Basic line infantry upgrades have their munitions costs reduced or removed, depending on upgrade
    - (Common) +25% armour and health of emplacements
    - Further/doctrinal upgrades TBD
      - Potentially, each doctrine will have access to 2 unique anvil technologies
- Forward Headquarters
  - The forward headquarters should not contain faction-critical upgrades; any upgrades from here should be moved to either T1 or T2.

## Unique Technologies

- Free French
  - Hammer
    - Militia Mobilisation - All militia (poor skill infantry) become regular skill, but lose access to stealth actions.
    - La défense de la Patrie - Free French units no longer show up on the minimap.
  - Anvil
    - Weapon Caches - French infantry passively generate munitions income.
    - Mass Mobilisation - Militia units lose one skill level but are very cheap to train and reinforce.
- Artillery
  - Hammer
    - Hammer of the Empire - Artillery abilities cost less to use.
    - Crushing Blow - BL 5.5-inch guns gain increased range.
  - Anvil
    - Improved Defensive Oversight - Registered artillery becomes free.
    - Receive the Zombies - Canadian infantry lose one skill level but are very cheap to train and reinforce.
- Tank
  - Hammer
    - Veteran Tank Crews - Tanks now start with Veterancy 2.
    - Full Power - Comet tanks gain access to APDS.
  - Anvil
    - Expert Maintenance - All infantry sections can perform rudimentary repair on vehicles.
    - Fuel Logistics I - Increase fuel gain by 10%.
      - Fuel Logistics II - Increase fuel gain by another 10%.
- Mechanised
  - Hammer
    - Veteran Vehicle Crews - Light now vehicles start with Veterancy 3.
    - Armoured Recce - Light vehicles can now capture territory.
  - Anvil
    - Expert Maintenance - All infantry sections can perform rudimentary repair on vehicles.
    - Efficient War Machine - Light vehicles no longer cost fuel to build except the Valentine tank, which costs 20 fuel less.
- Guard
  - Hammer
    - Breakthrough Doctrine - All medium tanks (excluding Comet tanks) now gain access to long form sprint, which have long cooldown but also have long duration.
    - Mass Assault - British rifle section costs one skill level less to build and reinforce.
      - In other words, they cost 200 manpower to build and 20 manpower to reinforce instead of 240 manpower to build and 24 manpower to reinforce.
  - Anvil
    - Recruiting Surplus - All British infantry outside of rifle sections may now have access to 6 man squads.
    - Conditioned Personnel - All infantry now gain access to conditioned sprint.
- Special Operations
  - Hammer
    - Jerry Special - Equips elite infantry with Panzerfäuste and heavy Gammon bombs.
    - M2HB .50 HMG Replacement - Replaces the standard .303 Vickers Heavy Machine Gun with the M2HB .50 Heavy Machine Gun.
  - Anvil
    - At Any Cost! - All elite infantry lose conditioned sprint but gain a suppression-breaking sprint.
    - Training Regimen - Elite infantry build and reinforcement costs decrease, but all other infantry cost more to reinforce.
