# v1.2.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- M21 mortar halftrack abilities could still be used even while in counterbattery mode.
- [#52 - SS Sturmpionere loses their "destroy cover" ability when using Jäger doctrine](https://github.com/Stoklomolvi/Spearhead-Public/issues/52)
- T-70s in Tank and Motorised doctrines do not receive HE rounds after upgrading to them.
  - A corollary unreported bug is that T-70s in other doctrines (i.e. not Tank or Motorised) do not get fragmentation rounds after global fragmentation has been upgraded.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **New mobility criticals have been implemented in a limited rollout.**
  - There are three levels of damage in the new mobility damage system:
    - Level 1 mobility damage slows vehicles by 10%;
    - Level 2 mobility damage slows vehicles by 20%;
    - Level 3 mobility damage results in detracking of the vehicle in question, enabling it only to rotate in place.
  - Anti-tank rifles naturally have a chance to deal 1 level of mobility damage naturally.
    - Sticky bombs are guaranteed to deal 1 level of mobility damage.
  - All landmines have been significantly nerfed in their damage output; all landmines smaller than a Teller mine can at best destroy light vehicles in one shot.
    - Instead of outright destroying vehicles, landmines now inflict a guaranteed level 3 mobility critical (detracking).
    - Teller mines are the exception to this rule, and will one-shot all medium vehicles and lighter while still applying the guaranteed level 3 mobility critical (detracking) to medium heavy tanks and heavier.
  - All detracking abilities no longer have a 75% chance to apply a 50% HP-gated immobilisation critical; instead, they are guaranteed to apply 2 levels of mobility damage per use.
    - Previously, detracking abilities varied in range; tank "Target Tread" abilities had 50 range, while anti-tank gun "Target Tread" abilities had 75 range. All abilities have been unified on 60 range.
    - British units are unique in that all of their detracking abilities are available at 75 range regardless of weapon type, compensating somewhat for their lacklustre gun damage output.
  - Tank ramming is now guaranteed to detrack the target vehicle and also immobilise the user.
- Expert Gunnery upgrade on mortar halftracks now applies to all weapons and abilities rather than just the mortar auto-attack.
- Demolition charges have a significantly increased chance to penetrate everything, but damage is now capped out at heavily damaging heavy tanks at full health rather than guaranteeing one-shots of them.
- Criticals no longer have a 1 second delay before effects activate.
- All grenades of all types, from anti-infantry to anti-tank grenades, no longer track targets once they leave ability range.
  - Only two exceptions to this rule exist: Haftholladung anti-tank weapons and Composition B anti-tank weapons.
  - RPG-6 anti-tank grenades are affected by this change.
- Offensive officer ability call-ins now reveal the officer squad calling them and applies a significant received suppression penalty to the squad in question.
  - Exceptions are fire missions, registered artillery, and Stuka bomb drops.
  - Officer text has been amended to reflect this change.
- Weapons that rely on the Molotov cocktail flame effect no longer have wild inconsistencies in their damage output.
  - Due to the implementation relying on criticals, a Molotov cocktail exploding on a squad could sometimes do either nothing at all or wipe the entire squad in a single instant. Instead, this behaviour has been changed to inflict a steady damage-over-time effect instead, with units caught in the explosion taking 1 damage every second. This effect stacks with each Molotov cocktail flame puddle.
  - As this change has the potential to significantly nerf the impact of Molotov cocktails, the base damage of Molotov cocktails (and other flame weapons) has been increased from 40-60 damage to 60-70 damage.
    - The cost of Molotov cocktails remains the same to compensate for its significant wind-up time.
  - German incendiary grenade explosion damage range tightened from 60-80 damage to 70-75 damage.
    - These incendiary grenades now have the same damage-over-time effect as Molotov cocktails. Previously, they had triple the effect, resulting in 3 times as many rolls for potential burn criticals.
  - The nature of this implementation should be able to mitigate some of the "infantry randomly dies a flame death because at one point in its lifetime it had been in a Molotov puddle" effect.
- Double LMG upgrades now have a cost applied by a formula dictated by the per-unit cost, where the cost of the double LMG upgrade is 2x the cost of per-unit cost + 5 munitions per unit.
  - For example, a single M1918A2 BAR upgrade costs 45 munitions; 45 munitions + 5 munitions = 50 munitions; 2 * 50 munitions = final cost of 100 munitions.
  - This change is strictly a nerf to double LMG upgrades, as previously, double LMG upgrades were discounted compared to buying each LMG separately.
- Offensive grenades (i.e. grenades that cause damage, which would exclude smoke for example) now have significant scatter penalties when thrown into the fog of war.
- Grenades that explode on impact now have a slightly different explosion effect.
- Unit statistics icons on vehicle portraits have been removed due to difficulty in keeping them up-to-date relative to changing game conditions.

### United States Forces

- M21 mortar halftrack barrages now cost 10 munitions to fire.
  - This change applies to the British mortar halftrack as well.
- M3 grease gun upgrade on riflemen squads is no longer locked behind Veterancy 1.
- Guns on M4A3E8 chassis tanks (76mm and 75mm) have had their moving accuracy increased from 60% to 75%.
- 105mm howitzer white phosphorus explosions now have an extra explosion effect (visual only).
- M18 recoilless rifle damage range widened from 200-220 to 80-220, mimicking the inconsistent damage output of other high accuracy AT weapons such as AT rifles.
  - They also gain the ability to randomly inflict 1 level of mobility damage that other AT rifles have.

### British Forces

- **British non-doctrinal Logistics Command Post technologies implemented.**
  - For Hammer:
    - Cromwell IV tanks can be upgraded into Cromwell V tanks.
    - 17-pounder guns can be upgraded to use APCBC rounds, granting an additional 75 penetration and 30 damage per shot.
  - For Anvil:
    - Basic weapon upgrades can have their costs reduced by 25-50%.
    - Emplacements can gain +25% armour and +25% health.
- Each requisition technology now has additional information about what the technology actually unlocks.
- Cost of many British team weapons reduced from a base + 260 manpower to a base + 240 manpower.
- The first British rifle section trained will come equipped with a Bren LMG.
- British faction has a global -10% manpower upkeep modifier.
- Sten Mk VI SMGs (silenced Stens) and Sten Mk V SMGs now share accuracy and moving accuracy characteristics.
  - Accuracy of both is now 0.16/0.5/0.65 for far/mid/near respectively.
    - Contrast with 0.15/0.4/0.6 for regular Sten Mk II SMGs.
  - Moving accuracy of both is now 0.5.
    - Contrast with 0.35 for regular Sten Mk II SMGs.
  - Sten Mk VI SMGs no longer cause combat when used.
- Bren carriers no longer receive suppression.
  - Also, they have had their CP requirement decreased from 1 CP to 0 CP.
- Centaur AA tanks now have substantially reduced accuracy against infantry (from +300% to -50% accuracy) and reduced damage against infantry (50% damage multiplier).
  - Suppression is also reduced from 0.1 per shot to 0.075 per shot.
  - Damage against pinned targets reduced to 25%.
- British emplacements are now locked behind requisition technologies.
  - Vickers K emplacements are locked behind the machine gun requisition technology.
  - Mortar emplacements are locked behind the mortar requisition technology.
  - 17 pounder emplacements are locked behind the anti-tank requisition technology.
- In attempt to change the mortar pit counterbattery ability from timed to toggle, the implementation broke; the ability has been removed for the time being.
- Forward Assembly Advanced Assembly repair upgrade cost decreased from 60 munitions to 45 munitions.
- Logistics Command Post now has a digging animation instead of a blowtorch animation during construction (just for you, M0131U5).
- Logistics Command Post passively reduces manpower upkeep by 20% as long as it is still standing.
  - This upkeep reduction stacks with both the faction bonus and with any anvil upgrades researched.
  - To compensate for this addition, the cost of the Logistics Command Post has been increased from 80 manpower to 80 manpower and 20 fuel.
  - There is also a building limit to ensure that players cannot build more than one.
- Repair ability "Stand Fast!" has been removed from all emplacements.
  - Vickers K Machine Gun Nest "Structure Repair" ability is unaffected.
- 3-inch mortar emplacement counterbattery ability changed from a timed ability to a toggle ability.
- 3-inch mortar emplacements can also now be built within base sectors.
- Commando infiltration dispatch ability CP requirement increased from 1 CP to 2 CP.
- Comet tank role has been adjusted.
  - Their main gun penetration has been massively reduced from 550/950/1450 for far/mid/near to 320/500/680, matching that of generic 76mm American long barrel guns.
  - Their damage remains at 200-230 damage compared to American 76mm gun damage at 250-280 damage.
  - HP has been increased from 480 to 650, making the Comet tank a heavy medium tank with middling penetration.
  - Cost has been increased from 375 manpower and 90 fuel to 420 manpower and 120 fuel.
- Cromwell and Comet tank speed and acceleration have both been increased by a fair amount.
- Churchill tank HP has been universally increased from 650 to 850.
- Churchill and Cromwell tanks no longer use single-shot smoke; instead, they use toggle smoke.
  - This smoke shell reloads more slowly than their normal main gun.
- Airborne Paratroopers have had their Panzerfausts replaced with No. 73 HEAT grenades.
- M10 'Achilles' tank destroyers now have slightly improved accuracy, improved aim time, and improved reload speed over their Firefly counterparts.

### Soviet Union

- 100mm gun damage increased from 650-680 to 680-710, as Panther side skirts (the original reason they did such a damage range) now serve another purpose (preventing track damage).
- PTAB bomblets no longer inflict a "Crew Shocked" critical; instead, they only inflict a "Crew Stunned" critical for 2.5s.
- The T3 technology Armoured Fist has been given a small UI makeover.
- ISU-152 is now locked behind the T3 technology "Armoured Fist".
- IS-2 no longer has access to HEAT rounds.
- Ability to infiltrate Shock troops now requires T1.
- Ability to infiltrate Shock engineers now requires T1.
- Ability to infiltrate Tank Destroyer guards now requires T1.

### Axis (Common)

- Toggle HE 75mm guns (e.g. on Panzer IV Ausf. G, Panzer IV Ausf. F1 command tank) now share statistics.
  - Importantly, accuracy has been unified on the lower value, reducing Panzer IV Ausf. G accuracy from 0.06/0.067/0.08 for far/mid/near to 0.05/0.0575/0.08.
- Hetzer tank destroyer pintle MG34 upgrade now correctly uses the modded variant.
