# v1.3.3

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- StuG F8 tanks now properly use the 75mm L/43 cannon, which was preventing them from toggling back to AP.
- British Free French Ukrainian Rallies now properly receive rifle smoke grenades.
- British Free French squad cost anvil upgrade now properly reduces reinforcement costs.
- British Parachute elite infantry now have their Panzerfaust and Gammon bomb weapons appropriately gated behind unique techs.
- British Artillery squad cost anvil upgrade now properly reduces reinforcement costs.
- SS Propaganda T1 officer had incorrect unit text.
- SS Jäger Jäger infantry no longer lose access to their upgraded Panzerfaust-30 if global Panzerfäuste-100 is researched.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Non-human pathfinding has globally been improved.**
  - Most importantly, the reversing distance limit has been increased from 40, which is very short, to 120, which is very long.
    - Further adjustments of this number may be required, but so far, based on testing, vehicles are much less likely to spinning in place when trying to go somewhere.
  - Additionally, a handful of new `curve_turn` turn plans have been introduced that have a `radius_multiplier` of 3, giving smoother turns.
  - AT guns and Raketenwerfers are included in this change, resulting in fewer instances of AT guns spinning around when ordered to travel backwards.
    - Sometimes, they still choose to spin around, but adjusting this plan will require a lot of feedback.
- All wheeled vehicles now use the Jeep turn plan instead of the Motorcycle turn plan.
  - The Motorcycle turn plan prevented these vehicles from reversing during normal movement orders; clicking the "Reverse" button overrode this behaviour.

### British Forces

- Hammer Improved Bolt Assembly upgrade improved from a 10% cooldown reduction to a 65% cooldown reduction.
  - This value remains hard-capped by the wind-down time from cycling the bolt itself.
- Hammer Lee-Enfield Drills upgrade improved from a 10% weapon accuracy increase to a 15% weapon accuracy increase on Lee-Enfield rifles.
  - This is on-par with 1.5 levels of veterancy or 1.5 full skill levels.
- Logistics unique upgrades now have some additional text if they modify squad manpower costs or abilities.
- Tank Hunter squad cost decreased from 260 manpower to 240 manpower.
  - Reinforcement cost accordingly reduced from 26 manpower per model to 24 manpower per model.
- Free French militia and Ukrainian Rallies squads have corrected reinforcement costs at 20 manpower and 30 manpower per model respectively.
- Free French militia M1 carbine upgrade replaced with a G43 upgrade instead, as the M1 carbine is not modelled properly on the militia model.
  - Additionally, the Boys AT rifle is removed from the squad, as the model was invisible.

### Soviet Union

- SU-100 tank destroyers no longer have access to fragmentation rounds.

### Wehrmacht

- Wehrmacht Infanterie Stoßtruppen Panzerfaust-100 ability hotkey changed from V (conflicting with Blendkörper smoke grenade) to C.
