# v1.3.3.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Anti-tank deflection criticals now only affect vehicles.

## Balance Changes

### Temporary Changes

- While the critical system is being reworked, all ballistic weapons no longer inflict criticals directly.

### Global

- Sandbag walls no longer inflict random mobility criticals to vehicles that drive over them.
- High explosive rounds now each will deal a subset of criticals depending on their category, and their behaviour against vehicles has been standardised.
- All anti-tank, tank, and heavy machine gun projectiles (that is, 12.7mm/.50 and above) have had their criticals standardised.
- Artillery penetration, deflection, suppression, and area-of-effect standardised and redefined.
  - Tube artillery now causes low but consistent damage against vehicles when struck, and are primarily a "kill" weapon. Suppression reduced.
  - Rocket artillery now causes lower but more random damage, but also deal low but consistent damage against vehicles. Role is primarily suppression.
- Tank main guns now are variably accurate against infantry, but take many hits to kill individual infantry models.
  - Mainly a feeling thing; a horde of tanks firing on a squad of riflemen will still do more damage with HE or their pintle MGs, but main guns no longer do nothing.
- Only Axis trucks can perform salvage on wrecks.
- All dirt bunkers have been hit with, at minimum, a 10 fuel cost. Manpower costs for German and Soviet dirt bunkers increased from 100 manpower to 150 manpower.
- Truck HP all decreased from 280 HP to 200 HP.

### Allies (Common)

- M7B1 Priest 105mm howitzer no longer has access to direct-fire rounds.

### British Forces

- PIAT launcher penetration nerfed slightly from 600/600/600 to 500/500/500 and are also no longer homing.
- Thermos anti-tank HEAT grenades damage reduced to match that of all other HEAT weapons, from 380-420 to 220-250.
- Bofors emplacement default range lowered from 85 to 75, allowing them to be attacked by anti-tank guns.

### Soviet Union

- PPSh-41 with drum magazines have been nerfed slightly.
  - Accuracy decreased from 0.0375/0.2/0.45 to 0.03/0.16/0.45 for far/mid/near.
  - Incremental target multiplier decreased from 10% per extra enemy in a 6/4/2 radius for enemies at far/mid/near ranges to 2% per extra enemy at those same radii.
  - Other big magazine SMGs have not been adjusted.

### Axis (Common)

- 20mm flak emplacement default range lowered from 85 to 75, allowing them to be attacked by anti-tank guns.
- Granatbüchse 39 cooldown/reload increased by ~25%.
