# v1.3

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Soviet T1 default officer mortar fire mission ability had mortars that did not have off-map artillery sound effects.
- Destroyed HQs now only reduce manpower income by 40% for the player with the destroyed HQ, not a flat -150 manpower income for all players on the team.
- Most grenade ability reticles now more accurately reflect the actual grenade radii.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- **Small arms accuracy at max range has been universally decreased by 25%.**
  - Only exceptions to this rule are scoped rifles.
- .50 calibre machine guns now deal "ballistic" damage instead of "small_arms" damage, which gives them a different set of penetrating criticals.
- Most Panzerfaust style weapons unified to have 800 penetration at all damage ranges.
- Skill levels have been standardised across the board to follow the following modifier scheme:

|     Skill Level | Accuracy Mod | Received Accuracy Mod | Received Suppression Mod | Cooldown Mod |
|-----------------|--------------|-----------------------|--------------------------|--------------|
|     Untrained I |         0.85 |                  1.15 |                     0.50 |            × |
|    Untrained II |         0.85 |                  1.10 |                     0.50 |            × |
|   Untrained III |         0.90 |                  1.10 |                     0.50 |            × |
|                 |              |                       |                          |              |
|          Poor I |         0.95 |                  1.10 |                     0.33 |            × |
|         Poor II |         0.95 |                  1.00 |                     0.33 |            × |
|        Poor III |         1.00 |                  1.00 |                     0.33 |            × |
|                 |              |                       |                          |              |
|       Regular I |         1.05 |                  1.00 |                        × |            × |
|      Regular II |         1.05 |                  0.95 |                        × |            × |
|     Regular III |         1.10 |                  0.95 |                        × |            × |
|                 |              |                       |                          |              |
|   Experienced I |         1.15 |                  0.95 |                        × |       -0.025 |
|  Experienced II |         1.15 |                  0.90 |                        × |       -0.050 |
| Experienced III |         1.20 |                  0.90 |                        × |       -0.075 |
|                 |              |                       |                          |              |
|         Elite I |         1.25 |                  0.90 |                        × |       -0.100 |
|        Elite II |         1.25 |                  0.85 |                        × |       -0.100 |
|       Elite III |         1.30 |                  0.85 |                        × |       -0.100 |
|                 |              |                       |                          |              |
|           Ace I |         1.40 |                  0.75 |                        × |       -0.100 |
|          Ace II |         1.45 |                  0.70 |                        × |       -0.100 |
|         Ace III |         1.50 |                  0.65 |                        × |       -0.100 |

- The `tow_kalach_fuel_point` point has been converted into a generic `territory_fuel_point`.
  - These new fuel points produce 10 fuel per minute instead of the usual 5.
- The `tow_kalach_munitions_point` point has been converted into a generic `territory_munitions_point`.
  - These new munitions proints produce 13 munitions per minute instead of the usual 7.
- The `tow_kalach_radio_tower`, `tow_kalach_watchtower`, `watchtower_battle`, and `watchertower` points have been converted into a generic `territory_point`.
- The `territory_point_low` point now generates 1 manpower, 1 munitions, and 1 fuel per minute.
- HEAT weapons now inflict a new, devastating critical on vehicles that sets the crew compartment on fire.
  - Anti-tank grenades and Panzerfausts also fall under this umbrella.
- Heavy calibre guns deflection damage has been increased by about 10% each. Smaller calibre guns now also deal deflection damage.
  - American 37mm armour-piercing rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - American 57mm armour-piercing rounds deal 6% deflection damage.
  - American 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 12% deflection damage.
  - American 76mm armour-piercing rounds deal 14% deflection damage.
  - American 90mm armour-piercing rounds deal 18% deflection damage.
  - Axis 37mm armour-piercing rounds deal 2% deflection damage.
  - Axis 50mm armoru-piercing rounds deal 6% deflection damage.
  - Axis low-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 12% deflection damage.
  - Axis medium-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 14% deflection damage.
  - Axis high-velocity 75mm armour-piercing rounds deal 16% deflection damage.
  - Axis 88mm armour-piercing rounds deal 18% deflection damage.
  - Axis 128mm armour-piercing rounds deal 30% deflection damage.
  - British 6-pounder rounds deal 6% deflection damage.
  - British OQF 75mm rounds deal 12% deflection damage.
  - British 17-pounder rounds deal 16% deflection damage.
  - Soviet 45mm armour-piercing rounds deal 4% deflection damage.
  - Soviet high-velocity 57mm armour-piercing rounds deal 12% deflection damage.
  - Soviet low-velocity 76mm armour-piercing rounds deal 12% deflection damage.
  - Soviet medium-velocity 76mm armour-piercing rounds deal 14% deflection damage.
  - Soviet 85mm armour-piercing rounds deal 18% deflection damage.
  - Soviet 100mm armour-piercing rounds deal 22% deflection damage.
  - Soviet 152mm armour-piercing rounds deal 25% deflection damage.
  - Soviet 122mm armour-piercing rounds deal 26% deflection damage.
  - All HEAT deflections deal 25% deflection damage.
- Deflections now deal temporary small crits that have minor effects.
  - American vehicles under the effects of "At Any Cost!" and Soviet vehicles under the effects of "Deep Battle" do not suffer from deflection criticals.
- Death criticals have been unified across all vehicles. Previously, a vehicle at HP had a chance of rolling some kind of death critical, such as "main gun destroyed", instead of exploding outright. Now, all vehicles at 0 HP will be guaranteed to be either destroyed or abandoned.
  - Abandonment is guaranteed to happen on a *deflection* from ballistic weapons (e.g. anti-tank guns and tank cannons) at 0 HP; a penetration at 0 HP will *always* destroy the vehicle.
  - Brew-up category vehicles include most Waffen-SS vehicles such as Pumas and Panthers, where in addition to being destroyed or abandoned, there is a chance the vehicle's ammunition will cook off and result in a "brew-up" death. This addition is cosmetic only.
  - Normal death criticals include such vehicles as T-34s and Shermans, where there is no brew-up chance and the vehicle instead either gets destroyed or abandoned.
    - Shermans have been moved into this category from the brew-up vehicles as a simulation of wet stowage in use during the time period Ironside represents. There is no gameplay effect here.
  - Light vehicle death criticals are like normal death criticals except that small arms, explosives, and flames can also result in abandonment if the vehicle is reduced to 0 HP by a deflection.
- The cost of mortars has been increased across all factions. The primary reason is that mortars have always resided in an odd spot where they were neither saturation (damage effect too low) nor good at supporting assaults outside of smoke (too inaccurate), resulting in players building large numbers of cheap mortars to achieve saturation fire.
  - Light mortars, namely the 60mm mortar, now cost 240 manpower to build, up from 210 manpower.
  - Medium mortars, such as the 81mm mortar, now cost 300 manpower to build, up from 240 manpower for Allies and 290 manpower for Axis.
    - Mortar halftrack price increased from 230 manpower, 30 munitions, and 15 fuel to 270 manpower, 30 munitions, and 35 fuel.
  - Heavy mortars, such as the 120mm mortar, now cost 400 manpower to build, up from 360 manpower.
- The default scatter of mortar barrages has been decreased by around 25% across the board, rounded down.
- Upgradeable bunkers, such as the Axis dirt bunker and Soviet dirt bunker, now have a 60 manpower price tag associated with their respective MG42 and DShK machine gun upgrades.
- **Random weapon and death criticals have all been removed.**
  - Previously, no matter how much damage a weapon dealt, models had a chance to receive crits upon reaching certain HP thresholds, and weapons had a chance to deal random death crits on either full HP or some lower threshold of HP. This lower threshold was added in a previous patch, though was not comprehensive enough to cover all criticals.
  - Weapon criticals have also been unified such that most weapons above a certain calibre will be ballistic or big_explosive, resulting in more model gibbing overall.
- Lingering flames no longer cause suppressive effects, but their damage over time effects remain.
  - Flamethrowers still directly deal damage and suppress, and their burst time has generally been increased from 1-1.5 seconds to 4.5-5 seconds.
    - Vehicle flamethrower burst time has been increased to 5.5-6 seconds from 0.75-1 second.
- Grenade functionality has been adjusted.
  - Generally, their damage cones have been tightened or shrunk and their damage modifiers against heavy cover and light cover have been set at 0.5x damage and 0.85x damage respectively.
  - Grenade scatter in general has been reduced, making it easier to predict where grenades will land.
  - Grenade assaults will now universally scatter short, meaning that you want to get as much of the ability circle to cover the target as possible as far back as possible.
- Generic rocket anti-tank teams now incur a munitions upkeep cost of 7 munitions per minute.
  - This upkeep includes AT teams that start out with AT rifles (e.g. Soviet anti-tank rifle teams, SS anti-tank rifle teams) that upgrade into having rocket AT weapons.
  - This upkeep specifically excludes PIAT launcher teams, which are not rocket AT.

### United States Forces

- USF Airborne loiters are no longer interruptible (except with retreat).
  - Largely a quality-of-life feature to prevent players from accidentally cancelling their loiters.

### British Forces

- British officers have finally had their officer abilities completed.
- British doctrines now offer four unique technologies to research at the Logistics Command Post.
  - Each specialisation (Hammer/Anvil) gets two unique technologies to research with their own unique benefits.
- Technology unlocks now grant CP when researched. Amount of CP differs for the type of technology researched.
  - Each T1 technology grants 0.3 CP, for a total of 1 CP when T2 technologies are unlocked, and 1.3 CP if all T1 technologies are unlocked.
  - Each T2 technology grants 0.5 CP, for a total of 1 CP when T3 technologies are unlocked, and 1.5 CP if all T2 technologies are unlocked.
  - Each T3 technology grants 0.5 CP, for a total of 2 CP when T4 technologies are unlocked (all T3 technologies are required for T4).
  - Each T4 technology grants 1 CP.
  - Each Hammer technology grants 0.5 CP.
- British units that still had access to white phosphorus grenades had these grenades replaced with No. 77 smoke grenades.
  - Units affected include the 2nd New Zealand Rifles, the 1st Airborne Assault Team, and the 1st SAS Recon Commandos.
- French militia units now require 1 CP to train.
  - They also start out as 4-man squads, requiring the 5-man squad upgrade to obtain their 5th squad member.

### Soviet Union

- Soviet Tank Destroyer loiter is no longer interruptible (except with retreat).
  - Largely a quality-of-life feature to prevent players from accidentally cancelling their loiters.
- Soviet Valentine cost increased from 240 manpower to 300 manpower.
- Soviet T-60 cost increased from 210 manpower and 40 fuel to 240 manpower and 45 fuel.
  - Cheaper variant cost increased from 210 manpower and 30 fuel to 240 manpower and 35 fuel.
- BS-3 anti-tank emplacement cost increased from 420 manpower and 30 fuel to 420 manpower and 90 fuel.

### Axis (Common)

- PaK 43 anti-tank emplacement cost increased from 400 manpower and 30 fuel to 400 manpower and 90 fuel.
- Toggle HE and the Panzer IV Ausf. G and Beutepanzer T-34 are now gated behind a 240 munitions, CP 11 unlock upgrade requirement.
  - This same tech also gates the toggle HE ability on American tanks.

### Wehrmacht

- Ost Division may no longer construct the PaK 43 anti-tank emplacement.
- Leichte Division may no longer construct Panzer IV Ausf. H tanks.
  - Instead, they may only build Panzer IV Ausf G. tanks. However, they have regained access to the generic StuG III tank destroyer, which they previously were unable to build.
