# v1.3.2

As always, no software is bug-free. If any bugs are encountered, please file a report on the [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/stoklomolvi-development-studios-365319231946096644).

## Bugfixes

- Pinned infantry no longer slide along the ground.
- British officer abilities now get cancelled if the officer using the ability gets pinned.

## Balance Changes

### Global

- Flamethrower weapons of all kinds now +100% damage to units in garrisons, up from mostly around +50% damage.
- HEAT crew burning debuff now also increases reload time by 50%.
- Rocket anti-tank teams that are too close to each other will debuff each other with a massive penalty that yields -80% accuracy, -80% penetration, and +100% weapon scatter.
  - Singular anti-tank teams do not debuff themselves.
- Hand-held rocket anti-tank in general has been adjusted such that scattered shots are very likely to fall short, rather than scattering long and impacting the vehicle anyway.

### United States Forces

- Rear Echelon M1 Garands upgrade removed as it was pretty much entirely pointless; instead, Rear Echelon units may now equip themselves with the M2 Flamethrower.
- Ranger defensive officer ability is now a Decoy Fire Mission, which makes the enemy believe a fire mission is coming but in reality is nothing.

### British Forces

- Mechanised Anvil technology "Efficient War Machine" no longer removes fuel costs for Valentine tanks and instead reduces their cost by 20 fuel per unit.

### Waffen-SS

- Cancelling a Sturmtiger shot before it fires but after the flares fall now initiates a minute-long cooldown period.
